LONDON. Arsene Wenger has identified November as the acid test of Arsenal s title credentials after admitting his players are displaying new-found resolve and maturity following last season s failure to halt Leicester s charge to the English Premier League soccer crown. Arsenal currently sit second in the table, level on points with leaders Manchester City and third-placed Liverpool, after securing a comfortable 4-1 victory against bottom club Sunderland on Saturday.The win against David Moyes team at the Stadium of Light extended Arsenal s unbeaten run to 14 games, stretching back to the opening day defeat against Liverpool at the Emirates.But with November bringing league games against Tottenham and Manchester United, as well as Eddie Howe s Bournemouth, Wenger believes Arsenal s prospects will be much clearer by the time December arrives. We now have difficult games coming up, with a difficult November, so by the end of November we will know more about ourselves, Wenger said. The desire is there and the mentality is great, though. There is great togetherness, we have quality as well, so they are good ingredients. But we have to show that we can do it week in and week out. Arsenal secured victory at Sunderland, with two goals apiece from Alexis Sanchez and Olivier Giroud after Jermain Defoe s penalty had hauled the home side level in the second-half.And Wenger admits that his team s surge to victory suggested growing maturity in the squad. That s what you want to show, Wenger said. But we want to show it on a longer distance. That is what is at stake. We ll see, but the win shows our belief that we can bounce back from a disappointing result last week. We also showed we can bounce back in a game when it doesn t go our way, so overall I believe that it can convince the team that we playing the right way. I think Sunderland were surprised by the strength of our push again. In contrast to Arsenal, Sunderland were abject and remain marooned at the foot of the table on two points the worst return after 10 games since Manchester City achieved the same haul in 1995-96. The Independent.