LONDON. Everton manager Ronald Koeman believes Liverpool can win the English Premier League soccer title this season. The Dutchman, who replaced Roberto Martinez at Goodison Park in June, has enjoyed a decent start to the campaign having bagged five victories in his opening 11 Premier League fixtures. His praise for Jurgen Klopp and his free-scoring side may not endear him to the blue half of Merseyside but Koeman doesn t mind admitting that Liverpool are serious challengers, along with Chelsea and Manchester City.He told ESPN: It s still too early to say who will be the favourites, but I have been impressed by Liverpool so far. Maybe that is not what you might expect the Everton manager to say, but they have been playing some very good football and deserve to be at the top. They have goals in their team and this is what all successful sides need. Of course they can be champions this season, they have a good chance, but they are not the only contenders. My Everton team has played Manchester City and Chelsea in the last few weeks and both were very impressive. We managed to draw at City, but you could see the quality of these teams. Then we all know what happened at Chelsea, as we lost 5-0 and they put in a very good performance. It was difficult for us, but you have to be impressed from their side, so maybe they can also have a chance. Koeman also tipped Manchester United to challenge for the title, despite an inconsistent start to the campaign.He added: I see this as a very open title race. You have four or five teams in contention and even though Manchester United have had some problems so far, they can still go on a good run and put some wins together. United have a new manager and they will improve in what is an unpredictable Premier League season. People expect someone like this with such a big record to win games instantly, but it is not so easy. Of course they can come back because they have some top players and a very good manager. Fabio Capello has also called Liverpool s start to the season spectacular but insisted Antonio Conte s Chelsea defence can win the English Premier League title this season.The Reds sit top of the table after 11 games as they seek their first title since 1990 with the Blues a point back.The former England manager said: Liverpool are spectacular. What is not known is how long it will last. Chelsea are solid. (Antonio) Conte is working well. To score against Chelsea is really difficult. For me that can happen until the end. Asked about Jose Mourinho at Manchester United, the Italian said: Coaches have to be given time, even the great ones like Mourinho. He is rebuilding the team after the Van Gaal era. Capello scored the winning goal for Italy at Wembley on November 14 1973 the first time his nation triumphed against England away. An historic goal, one of the most important in my career because it broke a taboo, he told Gazzetta dello Sport. For me that 1-0 was a victory of pride after the ironic headlines in the British press that presented the game like this: at Wembley 30 000 Italian waiters will be waiting. I dedicated the goal and the victory to the Italian waiters. The Daily Express.