Today s consumer is more tech savvy, and has increased access to data capable devices. We are now in the age were we demand to be easily reachable at home, work and on the go on multiple devices. We are more price sensitive to the cost of voice calls, and are more than willing to spend more on data as it provides us with value for money.The Zimbabwean consumer has become more conscious of calling costs and embraced mobile over the top solutions to cater to their voice needs.The question you are most likely asking yourself now is, What is the future of voice communications for Zimbabwe? ZOLphone!ZOLphone is a telephone service from ZOL Zimbabwe that runs over an internet connection, offering crystal clear voice calls to anyone, anywhere in the world at the most affordable rates using VoIP.ZOLphone is not a new product to ZOL Zimbabwe. The voice communication solution has served several homes and businesses for years, with customers enjoying the benefits of reduced calling costs, unparalleled voice clarity and.So the next question you are probably asking yourself is What makes ZOLphone so special when compared to other voice services? ZOLphone App, your key to boundless communicationImagine yourself sitting in your living room with the landline across the room. If that telephone is to ring, you are most likely to contemplate standing up to pick up the call. However, if your mobile phone is to ring 2 rooms away you are definitely going to run towards were it is!The above example best explains how today s consumer has grown attached to their mobile device. We prefer to have all our calls coming to 1 device the smartphone.ZOLphone app is an evolution of our voice service that allows for subscribers to be reachable wherever they are at very low costs. All you need to make and receive calls is a data connection such as Wi-Fi, 3G and 4G.In reality there is no difference between ZOLphone and other voice services such as fixed landline solutions in terms of making and receiving calls. The major difference lies in how it all works:ZOLphone works as a virtual line, meaning there is no need for a physical sim card or physical telephone connection.VOIP, the technology which works by coding your voice so that it can be sent over the Internet.The service can work on any VoIP capable device such as laptops, smartphones, tablets, company telephony systems.For businesses, Zolphone can be integrated with existing telephone reducing setup costs and getting the service up and running within a few minutes. Moving offices is no longer a hassle. Wherever you move to, your ZOLphone line moves with you. Businesses also get to enjoy the benefits of least cost routing, bringing down their telephone bills significantlyWow! I hear you say. But you are still wondering Why should I use ZOLphone App instead of everything else out there. ZiNumber, 08677. The only phone number you will need.ZiNumber is the first 5 digits of the ZOLphone service s phone number 08677 . ZiNumber is also an expression of what ZOLphone can do for you.In Shona it is translated as A BIG Number , which is a representation of how much bigger and better it is than any other VoIP service.ZiNumber can also be looked at as Zimbabwe s Number connecting the people to their loved ones freely and to the world affordably.ZOLphone users witha ZiNumber get to:Enjoy free on-net calls (ZiNumber to ZiNumber)Make local calls at $0,10/minute with per second billingReduce international calling costs by up to 40 percentBusiness can cut communication costs by half. Free branch to branch costs.Online portal to manage your account with features such as Voice to email and Call forwardingBecause ZOLphone uses so little data you will most likely finish your airtime before the runs out. 100MB of data will give you 2 hours of on-net callsHow do I get a ZiNumber?!!!!At this point you most likely want a ZiNumber and need to know how you can start using ZOLphone. It is as easy as ABC.Current Fibroniks customers already have a ZiNumber provisioned to their accounts. If you already have the phone in your home or offices, all you have to do is top up the account with airtime and get calling.Anyone including non-ZOL Fibroniks subscribers can enjoy using the ZOLphone App by downloading the ZOLphone app from Google and Apple App stores and follow the below steps:Visit any ZOL office with a copy of their IDComplete sign-up form.Pay $1 registration fee and purchase your airtime.After completing these 3 easy steps you will receive an email with the simple set up for the app. Within a few minutes you will have access to unparalleled freedom to call at ease.To find out more about how you can start your ZOLphone experience, contact the ZOL team by visiting our website www.zol.co.zw, download the myZOL App for Android or iOS or walking into any of our shops.