GutuSports ReporterCAPS United midfielder Archford Gutu (pictured) blew his top yesterday on social media pouring out his frustration over the apparent lack of game time at the Harare giants. Gutu, who has not seen regular action since joining the Green Machine at the beginning of the season because of injuries, left CAPS United training in a huff yesterday after coach Lloyd Chitembwe had excused him from the proceedings at the session since hasn t been feeling well in the past few days.But it appears the former Warriors midfielder was not happy with the lack of playing opportunities in the championship-chasing side when fully fit and has been dying to express his emotions as he felt the coach was being unfair with him.The fallout yesterday was a huge indicator to the breakdown of the relationship as Gutu later posted a photo on Instagram captioned: You play me when you want? Well I train when I want. You think I don t have feelings #HP. The post, which was also appeared on Facebook, drew diverse reactions from supporters who tried to counsel the player.But Gutu, in response to one Innocent Campila who had advised him to engage the coach said: Adhala munondiziva kana ndazotaura Innocent Campila worst year in my career apa harisati rapera gore lol.He further posted I give 100 percent every time am on the pitch pamwe zvinorambawo hazvo . . . I will never give up for something I love the most . . . I came a long way and still going . . . Have been training hard since Day 1 that s why I was the club top goalscorer in pre-season . . . Yeah and started 2 games both being substituted pa half time how coincidence (sic) . . . Gutu has missed many games for Makepekepe this year largely because of injuries and at times having gone AWOL from training.But in his post, the midfielder still maintained his allegiance to the Green Machine, who made a huge coup when they snatched the midfielder under the noses of bitter rivals Dynamos.Makepekepe were ready to part with a fortune to secure his services ahead of DeMbare.CAPS United then stood with the player when he had a brush with the law after he was arrested for his role in a late nightclub brawl which left a Harare man fighting for his life. Gutu s manager Calvin Nyazema yesterday said he was surprised by the development. Unfortunately I am not aware of the circumstances which made him react in this manner, but he should apologise to Chitembwe for this, that s my thinking. Of course he may have issues here and there, but what he did is not quite on. Even if he hasn t been selected to play, it s the coach s prerogative. As a player you should just do your part, work hard and one day you will be selected. There s an example of Devon Chafa who wasn t even registered for the first half of the season, but he worked his way back into the team. Maybe I should talk to Lloyd and Archie himself and try to bring them together. Of course, it happens in football, but if he is thinking that his contract is coming to an end and wants to move from CAPS United next year you don t burn bridges because you will always meet again somewhere, said Nyazema.Makepekepe resumed training on Tuesday as they made full use of the three-week break that was meant to accommodate the Chibuku Super Cup final and the Warriors friendly international against Tanzania this Sunday.The Green Machine have had a good run this year and are on the verge of winning their first league championship in 11 years.They lead the race with 57 points, two ahead of close rivals FC Platinum.They play their next game against Ngezi Platinum at the National Sports Stadium next week wrapping up their campaign at Chapungu towards the end of the month.