Tafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter &#8212; Organisers of the second edition of Africa Women Awards, which is scheduled to take place next month at Cresta Lodge Hotel have announced the hosts of the event. The awards, which are meant to award and recognise African women from entertainment and arts to business, will see musician Cindy Munyavi and radio and podcast presenter Danis Dube affectionately known as Danny That Guy leading the proceedings on stage. The show will have local acts such as Bryan K, Takura and ZimPraise performing.In an interview AWA spokesperson Sophia Chitimere said preparations for the show are at an advanced stage. She said some of the nominees from across Africa will start arriving into the country next week. Twenty nominees including ambassadors and embassy representatives are expected to attend the award ceremony for the joyous celebration and appreciation of African women, she said.Chitimere said they have also selected award presenters who will handle the categories in their respective fields. Three gorgeous presenters have been selected to present for each category for the AWA. We have TLC finalist Karen Mukwedeya for Business and Enterprise, while Kimberley Robinson will handle the Entertainment and Arts. Prominent Fadzayi Mahere will present the Community and Politics categories. AWA presenters are chosen based on the strides and impact they are making in their sphere of influence, she said.She said tickets have already started selling at designated points. African Women Awards aim to recognise, celebrate and honour powerful and inspirational women; and using their achievements to inspire the younger African generation across the globe. The awards serve not only to uplift and inspire Africans but they act as an effective tool in educating the world on what an African really is; the Africa that has a story different from the overplayed misconceptions, negativities and ill portrayed images associated with the African continent and its people, she said.Previous hosts of the show were Mutsa Samuel and Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa while winners include Dillish Matthews, Bethlehem Tilahun Alemu, Bonang Matheba , Dr Jennifer Riria and Biola Alabi among others. The awards are a brainchild of Lisa Chiriseri and Carol Nyazika.