ZIMBABWE S Mighty Warriors get their campaign at the 2017 AFCON Women finals underway tonight when they battle neighbours Banyana Banyana just days after they crashed to a humbling 0-3 home defeat to the same opponents in a friendly international in Harare. The match in Yaounde, which starts at 7.30pm, pits the two nations that represented Africa at the Olympic Games in Brazil with both falling by the wayside after the group stages of the matches.Zimbabwe coach Shadreck Mlauzi said he is confident his team will turn the tables against their opponents arguing he didn t field his best side when they were beaten in that friendly international.Banyana Banyana will start as favourites but the Zimbabweans return to the country where they impressed, losing only 1-2 in a final Olympic Games qualifier to the hosts, before knocking them out in Harare.The Mighty Warriors impressed many neutrals with the way they battled against world-class opposition in Brazil. We played some of the top five ranked teams at the Olympics and I don t see a reason why we should not do well in Cameroon, said vice-captain Emmaculate Msipa. We managed to play against Germany and scored, against Canada and Australia and we scored as well. So that in itself gives us confidence. If you look back we were at the Olympics and that experience we got is going to help us. Most of the players in the team were at the Olympics, so I think we will do well. Banyana Banyana are in high spirits after their first training session in Cameroon as they put the final touches on their AFCON preparations.After touching down in Cameroon, the senior women s national team held a light training session on Wednesday evening, with new coach Desiree Ellis well-pleased with the preparations thus far. The trip was very long, but a nice time to spend together as a group in a non-football environment, and to finally get here, she said. We re training on a beautiful field. It was good to see the enthusiasm amongst the players, even though it was just a loosening and stretching. When we stopped they still wanted to continue, but we had to as there s bigger fish to try later, she continued.Refiloe Jane hasn t touched or even laid eyes on Mamelodi Sundowns CAF Champions League trophy because she has been too busy working on being an African champion with Banyana Banyana. Following in the footsteps of her male counterparts is a rare act for Jane.She and her Mamelodi Sundowns Ladies teammates are normally the trendsetters.Jane, along with Andile Dlamini and Andisiwe Mgcoyi &#8211; the Sundowns Ladies contingent in the Banyana squad that s in Cameroon &#8211; are the ones playing catch-up. Winning this trophy would mean so much for us as a group and the nation, especially for coach Desiree (Ellis) who would be the first coach to lead us to being African champions, Jane said. It would be a huge achievement and would mean a lot, with a South African coach guiding us to that. We have played a number of tournaments as a team but we have never won a trophy. For us to go forward and to play in big tournaments like the World Cup, which is what we want, we need to first conquer the continent before we can compete there. Jane comes into this tournament with added but familiar respon-sibilities as vice-captain. She will deputise for Janine van Wyk. The 24-year-old s re-appointment is part of a plan for the future with the likes of Van Wyk, Nompumelelo Nyandeni, Noko Matlou and Dlamini nearing the end of their international careers.Jane, one of the most experienced players among those who are in their early 20s, has a good blend of experience and years ahead of her. It wasn t such a shock when I was appointed as the vice-captain because under (former Banyana) coach Joseph Mkhonza, when Janine was selected as the captain (taking over from Dlamini), I was appointed to be her deputy, Jane said. Things changed when coach Vera (Pauw) came in. Now I am back to being the deputy. Nothing much is going to change because I will be doing something that I have done before. I have also captained Sundowns. I showed qualities of a leader there, taking over the responsibility to guide the team. Being selected to be the deputy captain at an early age, I think that they were preparing me for the future. So when the likes of Janine get out of the system, I can take over and it s not a major adjustment. Banyana v ZimbabweHead-to-headGames played: 21Banyana wins: 14Banyana losses: 3Draws: 4Banyana goals: 43Zimbabwe goals: 19 &#8211; Sports Reporter/Kick Off/Independent