LONDON. &#8211; Tributes have been pouring in from around the world for Steven Gerrard following his retirement. The Liverpool legend announced he was hanging up his boots for good on Tuesday after a glittering career. He left Merseyside in 2015 after playing more than 700 games for the club to join MLS side LA Galaxy.It was not just at Anfield where the midfielder, who almost single-handedly won Liverpool the Champions League in 2005, made his name.Gerrard won 114 England caps, captained his country numerous times and bagged 21 goals for the Three Lions. And as he calls time on his illustrious career, stars from around the globe paid tribute to one of the greatest:Xabi Alonso: (Ex-Liverpool team-mate and Bayern Munich midfielder): The legend forever. Phil Thompson (Liverpool legend): Steven Gerrard THANK YOU. YNWA. Javier Zanetti (Argentina legend): Steven, brilliant player, world legend. Congratulations for what you did for football. Pepe Reina (Former Liverpool team-mate and Spanish goalkeeper): It s been an honor (sic) to play alongside you amigo!! Always an example on and off the pitch! Great moments together! Thanks for everything legend! Tim Cahill (Ex-Everton midfielder): Congratulations on an amazing career. A player I respect on and off the field. One of the best players I ve played against. Iker Casillas (Real Madrid and Spain legend): It s been an honour to play with you. Alan Shearer (Newcastle and England legend): Good luck for the future. Will rightly be remembered as a great of the game. John Arne Riise (Ex-Liverpool defender): The best player I have ever played with! Thanks for everything mate. Mr Captain Fantastic. Daniel Agger (Former Liverpool team-mate): YNWA. Michael Owen (Former Liverpool team-mate): We started at Liverpool together at 11. He was brilliant then. He went on to be world class. Liverpool s greatest player. Congrats Stevie G. Didi Hamann (Ex-Liverpool colleague and German international): If he does go into managing or coaching I wouldn t be surprised if he did perform at the very best level and become one of the best. There will be plenty of clubs vying for Steven Gerrard s services, and there is no reason to believe he can t be a very good coach or manager. &#8211; The Sun.