Cde KasukuwereWeed out corrupt council officialsREPORTS that top Harare City Council officials defied a Government directive to cut their obscene salaries to levels that reflect high allocation of resources to service delivery than to salaries show the extent to which holders of public office have become accountable to no one, but themselves. Government directed that Harare City Council executives should have their salaries cut from around $21 000 a month to $10 450 for the highest earner. The directive, which was made in 2014 following reports that service delivery had suffered because top officials were earning mega salaries extended to other councils across the country.For Harare, the directive was made during the tenure of Dr Tendai Mahachi and it had been hoped that the acting town clerk Mrs Josephine Ncube would ensure the implementation of the order.But that has not been the case as executives continued to earn obscene salaries at the expense of service delivery as revealed by an audit ordered by the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Saviour Kasukuwere. The decision by council to ignore the directive is said to have prejudiced the city of over $550 000, quite a huge quantum that can do wonders to service delivery.The rot at council has reached frightening levels as it is not only confined to defying Government orders, but extends to looting of council resources. The audit report has revealed that five city directors awarded themselves $60 000 each in holiday allowances at a time service delivery was tumbling and workers going for five months without salaries.We have watched for a long time council officials ignoring Government directives leaving us wondering who they are accountable to. Council is answerable to Government through the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing.This selfish desire to amass wealth through whatever means available should not be tolerated. It is clear from the actions of council officials that it is all about themselves and never about service delivery and employee satisfaction. How much gets into their pockets at the end of the month is what matters to them.The acting town clerk Josephine Ncube, who was suspended last week, should shoulder the blame. She failed to whip her officials into line and ensure salaries and allowances were kept at levels directed by Government. We cannot have a council that has selfish officials who ignore directives in pursuit of their narrow interests.Mrs Ncube and her team seem obsessed with putting their own interests ahead of the interests of the city. So much has been written about poor state of roads, water shortage and poor water quality yet council remains unmoved. It is always good to put the interests of the majority before taking care of own interests.This is exactly what we expected to see of our council. We had hoped the situation would improve with new brooms, albeit in acting capacity, but it seems there is perpetuation of the ways of the old administration of former town clerk Dr Mahachi.Government needs to take serious action and stop the rot at council. We cannot be a country where a few disregard Government directives and do as they wish. We applaud Harare Mayor, Mr Bernard Manyenyeni for quickly taking action and suspending Mrs Ncube. Corruption and looting of whatever magnitude can never be tolerated.It is these actions of the few that give Government a bad name, but fortunately now is the time for corrupt people to answer for their sins.