GSM and fixed line voice calls were the dominant forms of telephony in the 20th century, and ushered in communication for remote parts of the developing world well into the 21st century. However, these technologies are being drawn to extinction by the steady progression of communication evolution, and consumers demanding more for less.This evolution has led to traditional market leaders having revenue streams eroded by over-the-top services (OTTs) which rely on Voice over Internet Protocols (VoIP).Today s consumer is more tech savvy, and has increased access to data capable devices. We are now in the age were we demand to be easily reachable at home, work and on the go on multiple devices.We are more price sensitive to the cost of voice calls, and are more than willing to spend more on data as it provides us with value for money.The Zimbabwean consumer has become more conscious of calling costs and embraced mobile over the top solutions to cater to their voice needs.The question you are most likely asking yourself now is, What is the future of voice communications for Zimbabwe? ZOLphone!ZOLphone is a telephone service from ZOL Zimbabwe that runs over an internet connection, offering crystal clear voice calls to anyone, anywhere in the world at the most affordable rates using VoIP.ZOLphone is not a new product to ZOL Zimbabwe. The voice communication solution has served several homes and businesses for years, with customers enjoying the benefits of reduced calling costs, unparalleled voice clarity and.So the next question you are probably asking yourself is What makes ZOLphone so special when compared to other voice services? ZOLphone App, your key to boundless communication.Imagine yourself sitting in your living room with the landline across the room. If that telephone is to ring, you are most likely to contemplate standing up to pick up the call.However if your mobile phone is to ring 2 rooms away you are definitely going to run towards it!The above example best explains how today s consumer has grown attached to their mobile device.We prefer to have all our calls coming to the 1 device that has substituted the landline, postman and cash. The smart-phone.ZOLphone app is an evolution of our voice service that allows for subscribers to be reachable wherever they are at very low costs. All you need to make and receive costs is a data connection such as Wi-Fi, 3G and 4G.In reality there is no difference between ZOLphone and other voice services such as fixed landline solutions in terms of making and receiving calls. The major difference lies in how it all works:ZOLphone works as a virtual line, meaning there is no need for a physical sim card or physical telephone connection.VOIP, the technology which works by coding your voice so that it can be sent over the Internet.The service can work on any VoIP capable device such as laptops, smart-phones, tablets, company telephony systems.The major benefit of ZOLphone, is low cost calling to any network local or international with per second billing, ensuring you re only charged for the second used. On-net calls on ZOL voice are free, all the time.For businesses, Zolphone can be integrated with existing telephone reducing setup costs and getting the service up and running within a few minutes. Moving offices is no longer a hassle. Wherever you move to, your ZOLphone line moves with you. Businesses also get to enjoy the benefits of least cost routing, bringing down their telephone bills significantlyWow I hear you say. But you are still wondering Why should I use ZOLphone App instead of everything else out there. ZiNumber, 08677. The only phone number you will need.ZiNumber is the first 5 digits of the ZOLphone service s phone number 08677 . ZiNumber is also an expression of what ZOLphone can do for you.In Shona it is translated as A BIG Number , which is a representation of how much bigger and better it is than any other VoIP service.ZiNumber can also be looked at as Zimbabwe s Number connecting the people to their loved ones freely and to the world affordably.ZOLphone users with a ZiNumber get to:Enjoy free on-net calls (ZiNumber to ZiNumber)Make local calls at $0,10/minute with per second billingReduce international calling costs by up to 40 percentBusiness can cut communication costs by half. Free branch to branch costs.Online portal to manage your account with features such as Voice to email and Call forwardingOne benefit for those who like to get their fast food delivered at home is that all calls to the Pizza Inn, Nandos and Creamy Inn number 08677 323 323 number will be free. What a cool way to simplify your Netflix and Chill experience on ZOL Fibroniks. Because ZOLphone uses so little data you will most likely finish your airtime before the runs out. 100MB of data will give you 2 hours of on-net callsHow do I get a ZiNumber?At this point you most likely want a ZiNumber and need to know how you can start using ZOLphone. It is as easy as ABC.If you are a Fibroniks subscribers without a phone or want to use the mobile application, download the ZOLphone app from Google Playstore or App Store for iOS and enter the set up details you get from ZOL and get calling.To find out more about how you can start your ZOLphone experience, contact the ZOL team by visiting our website www.zol.co.zw, download the myZOL App for Android or iOS or walking into any of our shops.