GutuEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter&#8212;WANTAWAY midfielder Archford Gutu will not be part of CAPS United s Champions League campaign next year as he has targeted reviving his career in Europe where he successfully negotiated a move back to Swedish side IFK Vernamo. The midfielder, who apparently was unhappy being kept on the periphery at the championship-winning Green Machine this year, signed a two-year deal with his former club on Monday.His manager Calvin Nyazema yesterday revealed that Gutu, who also chose to take to social media to vent his frustration at being overlooked by coach Lloyd Chitembwe was excited with the development which will take him to the European side from January 1 2017 to December 2018.Gutu played for the second-tier Swedish soccer outfit between 2014 and 2015 on loan from topflight side Kalmar FF. I think it s good for him because according to me Europe is one of the best destinations to play professional football at the highest level. He is excited to go back. I think the first time he went to Sweden and spent four seasons he was still young. You know with these young players, he was probably missing home too much and he found it difficult to concentrate on his game. It was a new environment which was altogether foreign. But now he has matured. I know what ability he has as a player. Even the club itself has said they want to build their team for next season around him. So I just hope that he will excel because some years back we had set targets that after six years in Europe he should be playing for a team in one of the big leagues in countries such as Spain or France. He was not supposed to return in the first place and it s unfortunate things didn t work out at CAPS United. It means we have lost one year of that target and hopefully he will make up for it, said Nyazema. Gutu, who has also played football in South Africa, made his breakthrough in Europe in 2012 when he left Dynamos to join Swedish topflight side Kalmar FF.But it was at IFK Varnamo where he made a huge impact in the last two years of his contract.The club s Sports Director Thomas Lundqvist welcomed the midfielder.IFK Varnamo wrote on their website that 23-year-old Archford Gutu was one of IFK V rnamo absolute best players in 2015. Prior to this season, he was also one of the players the club worked hard to maintain, however, he chose to play in Zimbabwe in 2016. It is with this background very gratifying to be able to welcome Archford to the club. A player of such capacity choosing to once again become an important part of this club is a clear sign that IFK V rnamo is an interesting environment to be in. In Archford Gutu IFK Varnamo has got a very skilled midfield player who has great qualities in the offensive play and also working very hard on the defensive. He really is a player to build the team around. 