Priscilla Tariro KamangiraTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter &#8212;Chinhoyi University of Technology student Priscilla Tariro Kamangira will exhibit some of her art works at The Herald House under the theme Emotional Junction starting tomorrow until Friday. The two-day exhibition dubbed Art to the World will see Kamangira showcasing her drawings, paintings, photography, fashion designs, graphics and 3D artefacts among others.Kamangira is studying for a degree in Creative Art and Design and is doing her internship with The Herald Photography department.In an interview with The Herald Arts section, Kamangira said all was set for the exhibition and urged people to come and witness the talent.She said she has learnt to express herself through art. My exhibition brings art to the world. My work is as unique, educative and inspirational to the community. When I was young at Chikanga Primary School in Mutare, I used to enjoy competing with boys in my class to draw textbook diagrams, she recalls. My teacher, Mrs Mupudzi used to motivate me to keep up the good work, she said.Priscilla said settled on the theme Emotional Junction because it describes her journey at university. I went into tertiary education at a very young age and I remember spending most of my time at the University confused with the new adult system. This is portrayed in some of my abstract paintings. My creativity and artistic skills were enhanced during this once in a lifetime phase. Each and every art piece in this exhibition contains a piece of me and every piece is created in an effort to unearth myself, she said.She said her work explores her own morbid curiosities addressing the images that some may find odd, obscure or grotesque. My infatuation with such oddities manifests itself within my work. My artwork explores contrasting balance, like light and dark, male and female. My pieces have become vessels to the brightest and darkest thoughts and emotions from the dregs of my mind entwined with everyday life.Priscilla said art was her passion since birth. My father Paymore Kamangira used to keep those little art pieces somewhere I do not know till now. After completing her primary level, she had to shelve her passion for art until she went to University. After completing my A-Level studies, I joined Chinhoyi University in 2013. This is where I revived my passion for art, she said.Some of her artworks are also inspired by societal settings. My work is centred on the girl child and inspires other young girls out there who do not know how to express themselves. I also specialise in photography and film making as well, although I am flexible in all other art courses and with any other art media, she said.She paid tribute to her second semester lecturer, Dr Biggie Samwanda for encouraging her to take up photography.