Samantha Chigogo Herald Correspondent&#8212;All is set for the spiritual and healing crusade dubbed Healing Jesus Campaign, led by Ghanaian preacher Evangelist Dag Heward-Mills, that kicks off in Chitungwiza s Unit L ground tonight. Thousands of people are expected to attend the mega-Christian event that is set to be held in other centres.The crusades, which began earlier this month and are set to run till December 10, have attracted thousands in several cities and towns namely; Kadoma, Kwekwe, Gweru, Bulawayo, Victoria Falls, Beitbridge, Gwanda, Zvishavane and Masvingo.Chitungwiza and Harare are set to pitch the month long outreach programme, before they move to Bindura, Marondera and Mutare.Speaking to The Herald yesterday, Healing Jesus International Campaign director Reverend Ebo Ankrah, said the crusades continued to attract thousands under one purpose: Everything is in place for the crusade and we expect a 7 to 15km equipment convoy of the Evangelist s entourage today (yesterday), he said. The evangelist arrives around 4pm tomorrow (today) as he begins the first night of the crusades in Chitungwiza where a welcome reception will be held at the crusade grounds before the evangelist begins his mission of preaching and healing to the masses. Rev Ankrah said several Government officials were expected to grace the Christian event in Chitungwiza. On the second night of the crusade, Harare Metropolitan Minister Miriam Chikukwa and several other Government officials will be part of the crowd, he said. We have buses that will be picking up people to and from the crusade in Chitungwiza and Harare and all are welcome as this is an inter-denominational event. Rev Ankrah said pastors across the country should gear up for the pastors and leaders conference to be held on Saturday at the Celebration Church in Borrowdale.He said the crusades were a successful event to unite people nationwide. So far, we attracted a large number of people across the cities. In Bulawayo, 180 000 people attended the crusade; over 60 000 people attended the Kadoma and Masvingo crusades, while 45 000 people registered their attendance for the two nights in Victoria Falls, Rev Ankrah said. With these figures our aim for Chitungwiza and Harare (at the Robert Mugabe Square) are actually higher. We have a target of over 150 000 people in the three nights in Chitungwiza while the Harare crusade should attract at least 600 000 over three nights. The Healing Jesus Campaign has been held in over 90 countries, while a total of 14 towns and cities were targeted to host the crusades in Zimbabwe.