Sports ReporterEXCITEMENT and anxiety is building up ahead of the launch of the 2016 edition of the Payserv Financial Services Soccer League Cup tournament with the draw set for Barclays Sports Club tomorrow night. Formerly known as the Bankers Soccer League, the Financial Services Soccer League has grown in stature over the years and now has their own League Cup competition, having encompassed teams from the financial sector, which include insurance and asset management companies.With two companies coming together to bankroll the competition Payserv and local agents of international kit manufacturer Umbro, it is all building up to yet another exciting tournament and a family fun day for the competition scheduled for November 19-20.Payserv marketing and communications manager Patience Mapolisa said yesterday her company was ready to once again partner the Financial Services League and deliver an exciting knock-out tournament which will also be a platform for social interaction . We have supported the Financial Services League formerly known as the Bankers League and we are happy to see the participation of more teams including insurance companies like First Mutual and Old Mutual. As Paynet we offer electronic payment solutions for banks and financial services companies and we are in our third year of supporting our biggest partners in business. We are also urging people to come and support them socially. There are over 2 800 corporate entities who use our platform, Mapolisa said.Umbro managing director Panganai Sharawakanda said the coming in of companies such as Payserv and his shop to partner the FSSL showed the significance of corporate support for sport across the country. For us it is seeing companies sponsoring sport that really satisfies us. We would like to see more of that and it provides a platform for greater interaction apart from just the on field competitions. We would like to offer bigger and better deals for sporting disciplines and institutions and help with the standardisation of dressing such as what we see in the Premier Soccer League. From a kit point of view especially for the top clubs and those in the Financial Services League, we believe the clubs can also benefit from the sale of replicas, Sharawakanda said.Sharawakanda also said his company through Umbro South Africa was still keen on reviving their relationship with ZIFA which saw the kit manufactures dress the Warriors 2014 African Nations Championships squad in a deal facilitated by former national coach Ian Gorowa and the company s representative Donovan Bell.As the teams prepare to go into the hat at tomorrow s launch, three-time winners ZB Bank will be keen to know the identity of their challengers this year.FSSL chairman Thomas Nyadundu said although their league had 12 teams, the cup tournament would see four teams playing on an invitational basis.Nyadundu said the League Cup would also provide an opportunity for teams out of the championship race to end the year with some silverware. In the league championship race we are heading into the final round of fixtures with ZB Bank, CBZ and FBC vying for the title. We are also excited that the League Cup has helped us live the dream to reinvent the inter-banks competition and this tournament also offers those teams that are not able to take part in the championship with a chance to play for some silverware, Nyadundu said.