Diamond Platnumz and wife Zari HassanArts Reporter&#8212; When Tanzanian superstar Diamond Platnumz shares the stage with Jah Prayzah at Harare International Conference Centre in Watora Mari Concert on December 2, he is likely to be in a celebratory mood. The musician and his Ugandan socialite wife Zari Hassan, have been in high spirits over the past weeks as they are set to welcome their first baby boy anytime soon.Media reports say last Saturday Zari s friends and family threw a glamorous baby shower for the unborn son who has already been named Prince Riaz. He would be their second born after daughter Tiffah.The celebratory tone began two weeks ago when Zari posted pictures of their unborn baby on Instagram after a scan. And it seems the couple cannot wait for the arrival of their son and Diamond Platnumz has also shown excitement by sharing various pictures with his pregnant wife.So, when the musician jets in for Watora Mari Concert, he will likely be in high spirits and the celebratory mood will potentially make the concert exciting. It will be his first time to perform in Zimbabwe after his grand introduction to the local scene through the duet Watora Mari , with Jah Prayzah.On the other hand, the concert will take place a few hours before Jah Prayzah walks down the aisle as best man at fellow musician Suluman Chimbetu s wedding. Jah Prayzah is likely to be in a celebratory mood also.Many strings are indeed attached to the concert that will be filled with an air of celebrations that go beyond the event.Organisers of the concert, 2Kings Entertainment, said there is a lot more to celebrate at the concert that will also feature Killer T, Stunner, Ex-Q and Judgement Yard. We are ready to celebrate. This is the first time two big musicians will share the stage after their collaboration and it will be a night to celebrate the success of their video that has been received well and viewed beyond expectations on Youtube, said Dee Nosh of 2Kings Entertainment. We have done enough on our part in terms of preparations and we are just waiting for the date. Tickets are now on sale and people can prepare on time to avoid pressure on the day of the show. Jah Prayzah and Diamond Platnumz are set to do a number of collaborative acts besides the duet Watora Mari at the concert. They will do rehearsals for a surprise act when the Tanzanian musician jets in ahead of the show.