JOHANNESBURG. AbaThembu Chief Daludumo Mtirara allegedly killed himself, a royal family member said yesterday morning. He allegedly shot himself in his Littleton home in Pretoria, according to the relative, who asked not to be named. Meanwhile, an inquest docket has been opened following the death of Chief Mtirara police said yesterday. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said: A firearm was found near the deceased. At this stage no foul play is suspected. Mtirara was the spokesperson of a faction of the royal family that vehemently opposed the crowning of Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo to succeed his jailed father, AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo.They did not like the fact that Dalindyebo was critical of President Jacob Zuma. Mtirara and other dissenting members of the royal family wanted Dalindyebo s younger brother, Prince Jongisizwe Dalindyebo, crowned king.Masondo said: Family members alerted the police after discovering the body of the deceased at about six this morning. Upon arrival police saw the body of the deceased lying on his bed with a gun. Prince Azenathi s coronation was expected to take place today. Some family members are unaware of the situation. They are still preparing for Azenathi. It s a shock, but the ceremony will go as planned, said another unnamed source close to the family.King Dalindyebo was opposed to his son taking his place. He wanted his wife, Queen Nokwanda, to act on his behalf while he was serving his sentence.City Press reported that Prince Azenathi is involved in a dispute in the Mthatha High Court with his imprisoned father and Queen Nokwanda, to be allowed to live in the king s palace, the Bumbane Great Place.Azenathi got married two weeks ago. King Dalindyebo is serving a 12-year jail sentence for kidnapping, arson, assault, and defeating the ends of justice.On December 15 last year, the Constitutional Court dismissed his appeal against his 12-year jail sentence.In 2009, Dalindyebo was convicted and sentenced to 15 years in prison for culpable homicide, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, arson, and kidnapping. He was granted bail pending the outcome of his appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA).On October 1 last year, the SCA set aside Dalindyebo s culpable homicide conviction, but confirmed the rest of the guilty verdicts and reduced his sentence to in effect 12 years. News24.