President Mugabe and Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa view a fleet of vehicles for use by the Welfare for War Veterans, Ex-Detainees and Restrictees Ministry at zanu-pf Headquarters yesterday. (Picture by John Manzongo)Reason Razao Herald Reporter President Mugabe has sourced 13 Ford Ranger vehicles for use by the Ministry of Welfare Services for War Veterans, War Collaborators, Former Political Detainees and Restrictees. The vehicles would enable ministry officials to visit their constituents as Government continues with efforts to improve the welfare of the liberation fighters.President Mugabe handed over the vehicles to the Minister of Welfare Services for War veterans, War Collaborators, Former Political Detainees and Restrictees Retired Colonel Tshinga Dube at the zanu-pf Headquarters in Harare.Speaking after receiving the vehicles, Rtd Col Dube said this was the first time the ministry was getting vehicles since its establishment in 2013.President Mugabe established the ministry specifically to look into the affairs of the veterans of the liberation struggle.Rtd Col Dube said the vehicles would go a long way in assisting the ministry to discharge its mandate. Since the ministry was formed, we did not have any transport and now we can go and visit our constituents and look after our provincial field officers, Rtd Col Dube said. President Mugabe summoned me and my permanent secretary (Retired Brigadier-General Walter Tapfumaneyi) after Cabinet last week and promised to secure motor vehicles for the ministry. A week later, here we are with the vehicles. Rtd Brig-Gen Tapfumaneyi said: We are grateful and it has been difficult to move around. We express our gratitude to the President considering the budgetary constraints Government is operating in. You can imagine how elated we are. This will make us facilitate our work, reaching out to the war veterans as we try to bring them to unity. The vehicles are set to be used in all provinces across the country.Government, which is operating on a shoe-string budget, is also supporting the war veterans through payment of their children s fees.&nbsp;