Ivan Zhakata Arts ReporterHARARE West Rotaract members Takudzwa Mudawo and Vanessa Gowora have been crowned Mr and Miss Roca respectively during a Rotaract pageant held at the weekend. The event hosted by Rotaract Club of Avondale at On The Roof in the City on Saturday was a fundraising event to assist Melfort Old People s Home with food and clothing.Tania Aaron scooped the first princess title while Chelsea Muronzi was crowned the second princess with Praise Sinamawiri and Spencer Kuwana being crowned the first and second princes.The pageant which ran under the theme Modelling With A Heart for Charity saw 26 models both male and female battling for the title.Mudawo said he was shocked to win the Mr Roca title as it was his first time to participate in modelling. I am in shock and overjoyed as I did not expect to win because the guys were flawless and did more than I did, he said. I hope to participate more in these charity event and help the less privileged people in the society especially young children. Gowora echoed Mr Roca s sentiments and said she was looking forward to helping more underprivileged people as the now reigning Miss Roca. I am overwhelmed, I did not know I was going to win this contest as I participated to support our Rotaract Club, she said. Helping the underprivileged is something that has always been in my heart and now we want to focus on the younger generation so that we keep them off the streets. We want to create some clubs that will keep them occupied and desist from engaging in illegal activities, said Gowora.The pageant was supported by the corporate world and Rotaract members around Harare.Elton Shumba, the Club s services director expressed gratitude to their club members for coming to support the cause of the less privileged people and their sponsors for making the event possible. Modelling with a heart for charity has been seen through this event where people have come out in numbers to support our fundraising for the welfare of Melfort Old People s Home in Marondera, he said. Our event was a success and I am happy with the turnout of all the Rotaract members who came to support us. I would also like to thank the corporate world for their sponsorship and our next edition next year will be more fun than this one, said Shumba.