Oliver Mtukudzi, Alick MachesoTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent &#8212; Popular promoter Patson Chipaz Chimbodza s birthday bash has been a common topic in showbiz circles over the past few weeks and tomorrow the event comes to pass at Andy Millar Hall. He turned 43 yesterday. With all the top performers lined up for the event, a lot is expected as most musicians are set to unleash their new songs.Oliver Mtukudzi, Alick Macheso, Jah Prayzah, Suluman Chimbetu, Andy Muridzo, Ammara Brown, Freeman, Soul Jah Love, Alexio, Trevor D, Andy Muridzo, Gonyeti and Sandra Ndebele among others are set to perform.Mtukudzi through a representative of Tuku Music, Tungamidzai Simango, promised to give fans the best. The superstar will have a good time with his fans, he said.Macheso s camp said new songs will be played at the gig as they celebrate with one of the promoters they worked with for years. We have worked with Chipaz for a long time and a lot is expected at the show. We have new songs that will be sampled. It will be a big event for us, said Macheso s publicist Tich Makahamadze.Muridzo said he was glad to have a chance to share the stage with Zim s finest in the country and he will do his best to rise to the occasion. Keen Mushapaidze who is Jah Prayzah s manager said they were ready to give fans their best at the show as they celebrate with others. These are big celebrations and as a band we always work with everyone. We are happy to be part of the historic event, he said.Jive Zimbabwe an organisation that has been tasked to put the event together thanked artistes for coming together. We thank all artistes that will celebrate with Chipaz. The event reflects how he has been working well with them, he said.He said advanced tickets are being sold at several outlets in the country. Advance tickets are available at Redrose Salons, Jazz 24/7, Dandaro Inn, She n He Salon, Plaza De Castila, Rado Arts, Bootleggers Newlands, Tech Tools Avondale, Gava Restaurant, Garwe Restaurant, Time and Jazz. We are also accepting swipe and Ecocash, he said.Spicing the event would be soccer matches pitting musicians, soccer legends, promoters and journalists.