Elroy AkbayTedious Manyepo Sports Reporter&#8212;WHILE still praying for a dramatic turn of events in the remaining two Premiership matches, Highlanders coach Erol Akbay believes CAPS United are well placed and have the pedigree to land the league championship. CAPS United lead the standings with 57 points, four ahead of Akbay s third-placed Bosso with only two matches left.FC Platinum are second on the log, two points adrift of Makepekepe.A stunning 1-2 defeat at the hands of Tsholotsho in their last league encounter, coupled with wins for his title rivals, appears to have sucked life out of the Bosso challenge.The coach now believes CAPS United will win the league title if they keep cool heads and stay focused. You never know with football. Highlanders are still in with a chance and just two wins for us coupled with a single loss and a draw for CAPS will result in us being crowned, he said. But as it stands now, CAPS United have their destiny in their own hands. It is up to them to win their remaining matches to be confirmed champions or to post negative results and bear the brunt of being last-minute losers. But with the way CAPS United are playing I just think they are good enough to win the title this year. We also want to win the league but if we fail, I think we will certainly go for it next season. Akbay s next encounter is against FC Platinum in a match where a draw, or a Bosso victory, coupled with a CAPS United win over Ngezi Platinum at the National Sports Stadium, will see the Green Machine being crowned champions.The Highlanders gaffer said he did not believe any player really stood out because most of the teams relied on teamwork. It is teamwork which carried the day for most of the clubs, he said. There are not many players who were outstanding through and through. However, he believes there are some players whose influence on their teams were quiet clear.He mentions Peter Muduwa and Rahman Kutsanzira for his side but it is Leonard Tsipa of CAPS United whom Akbay thinks has done better than any other player on the domestic scene this season. Leonard Tsipa was just outstanding for his club. He is definitely the main reason why that team is where they are at the moment. One cannot help but appreciate what he has done for his team, said Akbay.Tsipa is widely tipped to win the Soccer Star of the Year gong and the Golden Boot award.