Walter Mswazie: Masvingo CorrespondentA POLICE officer in Masvingo allegedly took an overdose of antibiotic pills in a suicide attempt following a dispute with her married boyfriend in a suspected love triangle.The officer, only identified as Constable Mpofu, allegedly fell out with Archibold Chidziva Chidara or Uche, after she allegedly double-crossed him with a policeman from Bulawayo. Chidara was not reachable on his cellphone. Sometime last week on Saturday, Constable Mpofu, stationed at Masvingo Central Police, had a misunderstanding with her married boyfriend. After an exchange of harsh words the three separated leaving Mpofu at her house in Runyararo West, said a source who asked not to be named. It is suspected it was then that she swallowed the tablets.Mpofu was rescued by her landlord who discovered her suicide note. Sources said Mpofu was rushed to Zimuto Police Camp Clinic after taking an overdose of the antibiotics and the nursing staff saved her life when they induced vomiting.Mpofu allegedly left a suicide note in a sink at her lodgings in Runyararo West which was seen by our sister publication, The Chronicle. Her landlord, sources said, forced open her room and found Mpofu groaning in pain and frothing at the mouth. In the suicide note, Mpofu indicated her alleged boyfriend, Chidara, knew why she had decided to take her own life. I committed suicide. Nobody killed me because of reasons known by Archibold Kudakwashe Chidara (sic) though you have to spare him because he has no hand in this. My body is inside the room, read part of the suicide note.Mpofu listed cellphone numbers for her mother Esternrevada Kagore and Chidara who is also referred to in the note as Uche.Her mother confirmed the incident saying her daughter had recovered from a failed suicide bid over a relationship with a boyfriend in Masvingo. I can confirm the suicide attempt incident involving my daughter which occurred last week. I was phoned when it happened but she has recovered and was here all along. She has gone back today to Masvingo after she was given off days at her workplace, said Ms Kagore. It is to do with a love relationship that she had with a certain man in Masvingo which according to her had gone sour. Do you want to publish the story? said Ms Kagore before hanging up.A source said: We heard news about Mpofu s failed suicide bid. She was lucky to be alive because she was rushed to Zimuto Camp Clinic by her landlady where the nurses induced vomiting. National police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba could neither confirm nor deny the incident. I have not yet received the report. I do not have any knowledge of the incident, said Snr Asst Comm Charamba.