VP MnangagwaPaidamoyo Chipunza: Senior Health ReporterVice President Emmerson Mnangagwa has urged Zimbabweans to unite to take the country forward. Officially opening Hombiro Clinic in Chidodo Village, Uzumba District last Friday, VP Mnangagwa said through unity, Chidodo community successfully completed the clinic which became the 19th primary healthcare facility in the district. As Government, we trust that through unity, we are able to move the country forward, said VP Mnangagwa.He applauded Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services Commissioner- General Major-General (Rtd) Paradzai Zimondi who comes from Chidodo for volunteering towards the completion of the clinic which was started by the community in 2000.VP Mnangagwa, who pledged to build additional accommodation for staff at the clinic, said the facility would go a long way in making health services accessible and available to the community. I commend all those who conceived the idea of coming up with such a noble community project. The project falls within the framework of Zim-Asset s social services and poverty eradication cluster whose goal is to improve the living standards of the citizenry so as to empower the society and grow the economy, he said.Speaking at the same occasion Health and Child Care Minister Dr David Parirenyatwa welcomed the clinic in the national health structure and appreciated ZPCS for providing health workers for the clinic. He said Government would continue prioritising health and called for more financial resources to be provided.Comm-Gen Zimondi said the clinic was started by members of the community in 2000 and in 2002 excavations for the foundation began from which he took full responsibility to source for financial resources for its completion. Comm-Gen Zimondi said he took the responsibility as a way of ploughing back to the community on behalf of all war veterans, which provided them with food during the liberation war. We are now returning the chickens which we were fed by the community during the liberation war, he said.Comm-Gen Zimondi said while he was sourcing for building material to put up the structure, the community also played a pivotal role by volunteering free labour. I would like to appreciate the efforts done by members of the community in putting up this structure. They did play a huge role and together we succeeded. The clinic has treatment rooms, a pharmacy, a labour ward and staff accommodation. High-ranking Government officials including Minister of State for Mashonaland East Provincial Affairs Ambrose Mutinhiri, Mashonaland Central Minister of State Advocate Martin Dinha, Defence Minister Sydney Sekeramayi, Zimbabwe Army Commander Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga and Brigadier-General Douglas Nyikayaramba attended the function.