Terence Mapuka Cool Lifestyle Correspondent More often than not, it is the everyday things that can be stressful. As a teenager there are a lot of stressful environments which at times parents contribute to knowingly or unknowingly. This article looks at the common causes of this stress. Mitchelle Mangwanda, 18, of Glaudina acknowledged that parents are more experienced with life and their guidance is important.1. Academic stress The pressure to perform academically and better is one of the most common causes of high school stress. Teenagers often worry about a lot of things like completing school work, projects and reports, studying for an exam, and about the colleges to apply to.This kind of pressure may be increased by the parent s expectations for the child s performance which the child try to please or rather is pushed by the parent s expectations and what they want the child to do at school or in life.Stress may arise when the child is interested in what is different from what the parents want for their child and if conflicts arise or if they force the child in a certain direction, it causes stress.Mitchelle also pointed out that as teenagers there should be more research and clarity on your plans so that you can convince your parents that you do know what you want and what you are doing.2. Physical stress Physical changes can also be a cause of stress among teenagers. Adolescents go through some emotional and physical changes which can leave them confused and stressed. Not knowing what is happening to their body and why they feel a certain way during puberty is usually the cause of such tension.If parents fail to help the child this makes it worse. Teenagers are seen to be moody and challenging authority. As a teenager you can find time to sit down with parents and discuss these issues so that it helps both parties understand.Also, excessive strain on the body can leave the child tired and mentally stressed if parents give children work that is beyond their capacity. Rutendo, 19 said In today s world sport is being appreciated as an option and parents push their children to excel in several disciplines. This is stressful if you are not doing well.If I enjoy swimming and tennis they want me to be Kirsty Coventry and Cara Black at the same time! 3. Social Stress Social life is paramount for teenagers, and they have a persistent need to be accepted by their peers by being in the popular groups , attending parties and hanging out with their friends. They could give more importance to friends than family.They are under constant pressure to dress in a certain way, speak the teen lingo and be cool . More often than not, all this implies that the teenager has to put aside her true self and pretend to be someone she is not, which can be a very stressful experience. Parents tend not to understand this.In addition to the above, problems with friends, being bullied, and romantic relationships can also be a cause of stress among teenagers and them failing to open up to their parents builds more pressure.4. Stress due to family problems Anything that affects the family impacts the teenager directly. Unreasonable expectations by parents, marital discord between parents, sickness of a family member, or strained relationship between siblings are all the factors that can affect a teenage boy or girl.If family is going through a financial problem that can also be a stress or for teenagers. It is important that teenagers find someone to talk to so that they do not keep these issues bottled up.Terence is with zwTEENS an organisation which deals with teens and issues affecting them. You can reach Terence on 0772101601, WhatsApp 0772128170, terence@zwteens.com or visit their website www.zwteens.com