Felex Share Senior Reporter&#8212; South African President Mr Jacob Zuma is expected in Harare today ahead of the official opening of the inaugural session of the Bi-National Commission in Harare tomorrow. The BNC is a structure through which Zimbabwe and South Africa elevated their political and economic relations to presidential level from the ministerial rank where they reposed for years.Presidents Mugabe and Zuma co-chair the commission, which requires that the Heads of State meet annually to monitor progress on the implementation of agreed projects.New agreements, cutting across various economic sectors, are expected to be sealed at the end of the meetings tomorrow. Foreign Affairs secretary Ambassador Joey Bimha yesterday confirmed President Zuma s visit. He is coming tomorrow (today), he said. The Bi-National Commission started on Monday with the meeting of senior officials. Today (yesterday), they are winding up to come up with a document for presentation to the ministers who are meeting tomorrow. The Presidents will meet on Thursday. The idea to establish the BNC was reached when President Mugabe visited South Africa last year. According to a statement released by the South African Government, President Zuma would be accompanied by Ministers Maite Nkoana-Mashabane (International Relations and Cooperation); Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula (Defence and Military Veterans); Rob Davies (Trade and Industry); Malusi Gigaba (Home Affairs); Dipuo Peters (Transport) and Mildred Oliphant (Labour).Over the years, Zimbabwe and South Africa have signed 38 bilateral agreements and Memoranda of Understanding covering a broad range of areas such as trade and investment, immigration and consular matters, defence, agriculture, energy, health and taxation environment among others.The agreements were coordinated through the Joint Commission for Cooperation (JCC), which has been in existence since 1995. While some agreements have been implemented, others are pending at varying stages of readiness. Ambassador Bimha said all outstanding agreements had to be sealed and implemented. Some plans and agreements have not progressed beyond the signed documents, he said. That must change in the new dispensation of the BNC. BNC is no more than a mechanism, it is an instrument which on its own cannot deliver on our cooperation. We have agreements that are still under negotiation, we have signed agreements that await implementation. It is us who have to use it to achieve the planning and implementation of our programmes of cooperation. Ambassador Bimha added: The establishment of the BNC represents a significant qualitative upgrading of our two countries already solid relations. Zimbabwe does not have this type of forum of cooperation with any other country. The BNC with South Africa is a first and speaks volume about the nature and character of the close and cordial relations we have and we are committed to strengthen to greater heights. Head of senior officials from South Africa Mr Xolisa Makaya said the establishment of the BNC came after the realisation that relations between the two countries could no longer be managed at a level below Heads of State. Our deliberations over the two days should afford us the opportunity to conclude our negotiations so that these agreements can be signed in the not so distant future, he said. Undue delays will work against our historical and cultural ties. The BNC creates an opportunity for both sides to examine the scope of our relations over a wide range of issues. The four clusters will allow us the platform to deliberate on sector specific matters to highlight and underscore our successes while on the other hand, interrogate whatever impediments that work against our desired outcomes. Mr Makaya added: We should identify the key sectors and the scope of our sectoral cooperation in order to deepen and strengthen our relations for the mutual benefit of both countries. Our deliberations need to be outcomes based, measurable and achievable given that BNC is convened on an annual basis. We should be able to monitor and evaluate progress. Apart from promoting cooperation in the various sectors of Government, the BNC also seeks to facilitate contact between the public and private sectors of the two countries. During President Mugabe s visit last year, Memoranda of Understanding were signed on diplomatic consultations; customs administrations, water resources management and trade cooperation.