Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FORMER CAPS United skipper Hardlife Zvirekwi says the Green Machine face the most important week of their campaign as they brace for the make-or-break trip to Ascot where their destiny in this year s championship will be decided. The Green Machine beat Ngezi Platinum Stars 1-0 at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday to uphold a two-point advantage going into the last matches of the season.The Premier Soccer League yesterday released the fixtures which indicated the league programme will conclude this Saturday. While CAPS United will be battling it out with Chapungu at Ascot, FC Platinum will also be away at Luveve against Tsholotsho.Zvirekwi said they will have to summon all their energy for the big tie. I think we don t need to get carried away. We have to keep our feet on the ground. We have to focus very much because Chapungu are not pushovers, said Zvirekwi. Mind you they are also in the relegation zone so they might want to take their chances. Maybe they will survive if they beat us so they are not going to let it go easily. So we have to work very hard back in training and see how it goes. At this particular juncture of the season the most important thing is to grind results. Play bad and get three points; play good and get three points. Whatever the case. The most important thing now is to get the maximum points. As you know, the team that is chasing us is only two points away and if we sleep they will overtake us in a flash. So we are pushing hard. Even if we get one goal we have to try and defend that because sometimes it is better to protect what you have. Makepekepe have had a good run this year and are looking to end an 11-year barren run.Only Chapungu, who are embroiled in survival battle, stand in their way. Their supporters have been forthcoming this year. They believe this could be their year although the war is not yet over. We are almost there and we don t need to be carried away. It happens when people are running a marathon sometimes they tire when they are almost there, when they are about to reach the finishing line, said Zvirekwi. So we have to keep focused and concentrate on the last game. That is the most important game in our lives. We have to be at our best. Look, Ngezi were not easy opponents and we worked hard for the win. We have to do the same with Chapungu. The league has been so competitive. It has been unpredictable and full of twists and turns at every corner. So far nothing has been decided yet. We have been running neck and neck with FC Platinum and Highlanders all the time. But when the opportunity to take pole position came we grabbed it. That s how competitive the league has been and still is. Makepekepe coach Lloyd Chitembwe is also upbeat about their chances.He said his players deserved the credit for what they have done so far. Like I said earlier on, we are chasing records. We want to try and emulate the other previous generations that have done well for the club and I think we are on course. The attitude in the match against Ngezi Platinum was very good and also the character. At this stage of the season and with what is at stake, I am sure they did manage the pressure very well, said Chitembwe.Fixtures Friday: Bulawayo City v How Mine (Barbourfields), Harare City v Triangle United (Rufaro)Saturday: Dynamos v Chicken Inn (Rufaro), Highlanders v Hwange (Barbourfields), Chapungu v CAPS United (Ascot), Tsholotsho v FC Platinum (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Mutare City Rovers (Baobab), Border Strikers v ZPC Kariba (Dulivhadzimu).