Thupeyo Muleya Beitbridge BureauThe trial of South African farmer from Limpopo Province who is accused of abusing and underpaying 300 Zimbabweans farm workers whom he owes over R1, 6 million for the last 10 years has been set for November 28.Mr Van der Walt the owner of Johannesburg Farm in Lephalale area and nine other top managers were charged by police for assault and kidnapping of the Zimbabweans.He has also been separately charged by the department of Home Affairs for employing illegal immigrants, while the department of Labour has also filed another charge of labour exploitation.The disgruntled workers spokesperson, Mr Thembani Ndlovu said yesterday that the trial failed to take off at the Lephalale Magistrates Court when some key witnesses did not show up.He said the State was yet to locate some of the witnesses who have moved to other towns in that country, while others are among 36 workers who were deported last year.The group was deported after they became destitute. The South African Home Affairs department and the Zimbabwe consulate are working together in facilitating their court appearance.At least 15 people are expected to testify against Mr Van der Walt. The (South African) department of Labour is assisting us in ensuring that justice prevails and that Mr Van der Walt pays the money he owes us. We are hopeful that we will succeed because we are getting assistance from several stake holders including the Zimbabwe consulate here in South Africa, he said.Mr Ndlovu said most of the victims dispersed from the Water base Disaster Management Centre, when 36 others were deported to Zimbabwe after becoming stranded. He said they were still in contact with those who have been sent home, and that they will be paid their money through the Zimbabwe Consulate as soon as the matter was finalised. Most of the workers have been employed at the farm for over 10 years. Mr Van der Walt is the one who processed their work permits though most of these have expired, said Mr Ndlovu.He said Mr Van der Walt specialised in maize, tomato, onion and potato production. Mr Ndlovu claimed that the farmer forced them to work from 6am to 11pm and paid them R70 instead of the government stipulated R103 for an eight-hour shift per day. He has been trying to negotiate with some of the workers for a truce in return for the previous jobs and many have turned him down. At the moment he has engaged seven people, said Mr Ndlovu.Limpopo Province s department of Labour spokesperson, Miss Lerato Makomene, could not be reached yesterday but recently said that they will take further action against him depending on the verdict from the court.