Elita Chikwati: Agriculture ReporterGovernment has distributed nearly 20 000 tonnes of fertiliser to farms across the country from the Presidential Inputs Scheme as part of measures to avert shortages amid high demand for the product. The scheme is expected to benefit 800 000 households. Outlining progress on the Presidential Inputs Scheme yesterday, Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Minister Joseph Made said fertiliser companies were facing challenges accessing raw materials. Overall, fertiliser companies are facing a challenge in payment for imported raw materials. We have met with the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to work with fertiliser companies to make sure raw materials are available. There are a number of cropping programmes that require fertiliser this season, including Command Agriculture, cotton, Presidential Inputs Scheme, tobacco farmers and horticulture, among others. We need to put all the support to fertiliser companies, he said.He said currently 6 200 tonnes of Compound D and 13 500 tonnes of top dressing fertilisers had been distributed to farms across the country. Seed is in short supply, but I am happy that Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa has indicated readiness to purchase the maize seed. We are moving with speed to ensure farmers get good, quality seed, he said.Government has reached a decision that the Presidential Inputs Scheme should include livestock farmers. The southern parts of the country are predominantly livestock, with farmers in the area encouraged to concentrate on livestock production. The farmers will be supported to raise their animals. Minister Made said this was an important development because livestock farmers also required inputs the same way crop farmers do. This is an important and strategic development. In the initial stages, the inputs for livestock will include dipping chemicals, vaccines and other animal remedies. A detailed programme should see the support of livestock with supplementary feeding, as well as salt that assists animals. The focus now is on dipping chemicals, vaccines and remedies, he said.He said farmers were also allowed to suggest their priorities. Minister Made said the medium-to-long-term strategies in the livestock sector would include development of water, paddocks and mechanisation that relate to assisting farmers harvest pastures and store as stockfeeds. The third programme concerns cotton. We are into the second session on the cotton programme. Currently, inputs are being distributed across the country to support farmers. Cotton is a long season crop grown in marginal areas. It should be planted with the first rains. Rainfall is highly anticipated by cotton farmers. All entities and institutions must move with speed because we are moving towards the real season as we approach mid November, said Minister Made.He said farmers were anxious about the rains including those with irrigation facilities. Some reservoirs are going down in terms of water, including the water table. Farmers are worried about the excessive heat and evapo-transpiration.Minister Made said it was important that inputs are moved to farming areas before the rains as some areas had bad roads that would make it difficult to move during the rainy season. At least under the Presidential Inputs Scheme fertiliser side, we have tried as much as possible to move to various depots. Farmers should also ensure proper storage of their inputs, he said.