Herald Reporter THE Zimbabwe Newspapers (1980) Ltd Group has donated a Marimba musical set to Gert Nel Primary School in Chartsworths, Gutu, as part of the diversified media group s corporate social responsibility. The Marimba set, was handed over to the school during its Early Childhood Development (ECD) graduation ceremony which was themed, Leveraging growth through partnership to encourage smart partnerships among schools, parents, Government, corporates and individuals .The theme was premised on the school s belief that without the support of others, it cannot succeed. The donation will see the school form its very first Marimba band.The school s acting deputy headmaster Mrs Margareth Munyaradzi expressed gratitude over the donation by Zimpapers, saying it would go a long way to get the school introduce Marimba on its offerings.She said the school, despite being a rural one, believed in innovating and reaching out for help. As a result, it had recently secured 34 computers from donors. She bemoaned poor ablution facilities, the lack of a borehole and sporting grounds for sports such as basketball, tennis, cricket, among others saying rural children needed exposure to such sports as they could form careers.She called on corporates and individuals to chip in and contribute towards those areas. We believe that we cannot wait for Government to do everything for us. We must be seen to be doing some of these things ourselves. When you reach out your hand; at times you get help; hence we are grateful to Zimpapers for hearing our pleas and urge them to forge a long term relationship with the school, she said.Addressing guests at the ceremony who included Chief Serima and National Assembly Member for Gutu West, who is also the patron of the school, Honourable Tongai Muzenda, Zimpapers public relations and Corporate Affairs Manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi said Zimpapers was keen to invest in the children for they were the future for the country.She said schools and the education sector were critical to any nation s development; hence urged everyone to rally around and support where possible. The school approached us with an invitation for us to be guest of honour at their event and we agreed. We noted their requirements and decided to go with the Marimba set for it is key to develop the many talents that children have. It is not all of them who are meant to be academics. Some are meant to be musicians while others are meant to be sports people. We believe in availing opportunities for empowerment and growth as a corporate and have a deep passion for young people. Ms Tonhodzayi said the school s theme which calls for partnerships resonated well with the true essence of corporate social responsibility; which is about working with communities for growth and development.She hailed the school for its infrastructure and innovativeness which has seen it sourcing 34 computers and setting up an arts and culture centre where pupils get to appreciate their heroes and their past.The school s culture centre has an extensive photographic collection of the country s national heroes.She urged parents, teachers and authorities of the school to keep working together.Gert Nel Primary School has an enrolment of 419 pupils.