Elita Chikwati Senior Reporter The Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) board has suspended four directors pending termination of their contracts as the authority embarks on a restructuring programme to enhance operational efficiency. The affected directors are Engineer Israel Rwodzi, director, water supply operations; director finance, Mr Honest Murindagomo; director projects and planning Eng Bongile Ndiweni and director for ground water and drilling services Eng Samuel Sunguro.Zinwa chief, Dr Jefter Sakupwanya yesterday said the restructuring exercise was meant to realign the organisation with its current strategic thrust and new developments and trends in the water sector.He said upon completion, the restructuring and strategic realignment of the organisation would allow the organisation to play a more robust and meaningful role in the country s socio-economic development. Pursuant to this new thrust and focus, the structure of the organisation has also been affected. As such, the board met on November 3 and resolved to send the directorate on leave pending termination of employment contracts. The leave is with effect from, November 8, 2016, he said.However, sources told The Herald that the directors had been suspended for incompetence and for awarding themselves unauthorised loans.The sources said a report produced by South African consultancy company revealed two years ago that the directors were incompetent.Dr Sakupwanya denied the allegations and insisted the four were relieved of their duties as part of the company s restructuring. The company is restructuring and it is being done in phases. The first phase saw the retirement of the then chief executive, Eng Albert Muyambo. The second phase has targeted the directors. We want to reenergise the organisation. The affected directors were there when Zinwa was formed. They moved from the department of water to Zinwa. This had created inertia and this was impervious to the new ideas, he said.Dr Sakupwanya said the authority had appointed Eng Albert Mare, who is head of raw water operations to be the acting director responsible for water supply operations while designs and construction manager, Eng Taurai Maurukira has been appointed acting director, engineering and hydrological services.Head office management accountant Mr Wirimai Rutsito has been appointed acting director, finance. Zinwa s new strategic thrust is anchored on the need to ensure water availability for all citizens, resource mobilisation for the completion of water infrastructure projects, improved visibility, collection of outstanding debts, drought mitigation and the maintenance, rehabilitation and expansion of existing water infrastructure. The strategic thrust also entails the authority giving new and added impetus to areas of both clear and raw water supply, allowing the authority to also make strategic returns from its infrastructure such as dams, he said.