This picture collage shows (left) Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and wife Melania Trump casting their votes and (right) Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton voting in New York yesterday. AgenciesNEW YORK. American voters headed to voting booths across the United States yesterday to elect a new president, frustrated that they are stuck with two of the least desirable candidates in perhaps the whole history of the US electoral politics, and facing an uncertain future. The fact that the past few months of a mud-slinging, insult-driven and scandal-ridden presidential campaign is about to end comforts few, as more caustic rhetoric or false promises could follow even after a new administration takes over.Voters crowded into polling stations to choose a new president between the billionaire Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, the Democrat seeking to make history by becoming the United States of America s first woman president.In Virginia horse country, balmy south Florida, and busy Manhattan long lines snaked into the streets outside voting stations. I m excited. I can t believe I finally get to vote, said Jose Maria Molleda (63), a new US citizen voting at a Presbyterian church in Clifton, Virginia, where a crowd of 150 gathered before dawn for the 6 am poll opening in the swing state. Are you voting? joked an election official in Palmetto, Florida, tickling the feet of a baby as her mother carried her into a voting station.A crowd of admirers chanted Madam President as Hillary Clinton and husband Bill arrived to cast their ballots near their home Chappaqua, New York. I m so happy, I m just incredibly happy, a beaming Clinton said as she emerged, shaking hands, mingling and chatting with the crowd. All my friends and my neighbours, it makes me so happy. Trump and his wife Melania cast their vote in New York city.Speaking to Fox News yesterday morning he expressed hope of sweeping states including Florida and Ohio. It s been an amazing process, about 17 or 18 months since I came up with it . . . it s been a beautiful process, the people of this country are incredible, I ve met the people at every level and they are amazing, he said. People say what have you learned? That s what I ve learned: the people are amazing. I see so many hopes and so many dreams that didn t happen that could have happened with proper leadership. Trump is described by Politico as hoping for a miracle . But the race is certainly not a forgone conclusion, and he remains optimistic.Meanwhile, two female protesters were removed from a polling station in New York where Donald Trump was understood to be due to cast his vote in the US presidential election.Footage of the topless pair s demonstration was posted to Twitter by Sharon Clott, deputy style director at People magazine. Videos show the women shouting what are thought to be anti-Trump slogans, as officials attempt to forcibly remove them from the premises.On one of the women s backs is written OlO FEMEN USA indicating they identify as part of Femen, the protest group which describes itself as an international women s movement of brave topless female activists painted with the slogans and crowned with flowers. Hillary ClintonFounded in Ukraine and based in Paris, Femen has become notorious for staging topless protests against sexual exploitation, dictatorship and religion. Femen is the special force of feminism, its spearhead militant unit, modern incarnation of fearless and free Amazons, the group says on its website.The polling station is in New York, close to Trump Towers.In another development, political blog The Hill reported that Eric Trump may have violated election law.Donald Trump s younger son photographed a picture of his ballot in New York on Election Day. It is an incredible honour to vote for my father! He will do such a great job for the USA! Trump, Jr tweeted yesterday morning with a photo of his ballot.The tweet has since been deleted.New York is among the states that prohibits photographs in polling stations, sharing completed ballots and taking ballot selfies. Justin Timberlake was wrapped over the knuckles for a similar stunt.The outcome of yesterday s gruelling White House battle could determine how the history books remember President Obama, with his legacy on the line as one candidate vows to dismantle the outgoing president s signature policies and the other pledges to protect his agenda.From ObamaCare to his court-challenged directives helping illegal immigrants to his controversial environmental regulations, the president s initiatives and the enduring impact of his historic presidency depend in large part on the next administration and Congress.Trump and fellow Republicans have sought since the primaries to put Obama on the ballot as much as Clinton, and returned to that theme in the final days of the race. Obama s legacy is on the ballot Tuesday (yesterday) and the people are going to choose whether we want another four years of the same, Ken Blackwell, former Ohio secretary of state who is on the board of numerous conservative organisations, told FoxNews.com.Xinhua writer Zhu Dongyang concluded that as the ballots were now being cast, and whatever the results might be, only troubles seem to be guaranteed, both for the United States and for the world. News Agencies/HR.