Cde ChomboHerald Reporters Zanu-PF s overwhelming victory in Chimanimani West, where the party s candidate, Cde Nokhutula Matsikenyere, whitewashed the opposition parties and independent candidates showed that Zanu-PF is unbeatable as long as it respects the wishes of the grassroots. Analysts said the resounding victory, which came hard on the heels of a humiliating loss in Norton where factionalism was allowed to manifest, was a lesson for Zanu-PF ahead of 2018 on the sanctity of unity and the spirit of Team Zanu-PF that delivered the thunderous victory of 2013.Cde Matsikenyere polled 11 074 votes against independent candidate Peter Mtetwa who amassed 3 018, Renewal Democrats of Zimbabwe s Peter Gudyanga (183) and National Constitutional Assembly s Peter Musaruka who garnered 171 votes in Saturday s by-election.Political analyst Mr Elton Ziki yesterday said after suffering defeat in Norton where a little-known candidate, Cde Ronald Chindedza, was imposed on the people on factional grounds, like a wounded lion Zanu-PF romped to victory after mounting a well-coordinated campaign. It is clear that Zanu-PF learnt that united it would stand and divided it would fall. If the Chimanimani West approach is not disturbed by factionalism and individualism, the party will go on a winning streak in the forthcoming Bikita West by-election and eventually the 2018 harmonised. The people are behind Zanu-PF, he said.He said the Chimanimani West by election was Zanu-PF s opportunity to correct the wrongs committed in the Norton by-election that was won by Mr Temba Mliswa who took advantage of Zanu-PF that was represented by a little known candidate sponsored by the so-called G40 faction.War veterans, who have been the pillar of previous Zanu-PF campaigns, were side-lined in favour of a section of youths who were promised residential stands on contested land. Another analyst, Mr Godwine Mureriwa, said Zanu-PF was supposed to be careful not to be drawn into the Western agenda of effecting a regime change from within.He said the Norton lesson where the party members went in divided on factional and succession issues provided fertile ground for the opposition to unite against the revolutionary party, obviously with the backing of the West.Mr Mureriwa said besides factionalism, Zanu-PF was supposed to desist from the politics of food handouts, but come up with a robust programme to reorient its supporters on the ethos of the liberation struggle. The Herbert Chitepo Ideological School is critical for reinvigorating the ethos of the liberation struggle and the vision of President Mugabe. Giving people stands, land, food handouts is empowerment, but the basis of empowerment is ideology. There was Bhora Musango in Norton due to lack of ideological clarity. The party should adopt the winning strategy of Bhora Mugedhi of 2013, he said. The reason why Norton was lost is that it is an urban constituency, Mr Mliswa was chairman of the province, the way the former MP, Christopher Mutsvangwa was removed, factionalism and succession resulted in all opposition forces reuniting, he said.However, the sudden come back in Chimaninani West meant that Zanu-PF was capable of delivering victory in future by-elections and eventually in 2018.Zanu-PF Secretary for Administration Cde Ignatius Chombo was delighted with the result and pointed to the strength of the candidate and party-level democratic processes that saw Cde Matsikenyere representing the constituency.He said: Our candidate in Chimanimani is well known to the residents of that area, which made it easier for the party to win. Other candidates were unknown to the electorate. He drew comparisons with the Norton upset saying Zanu-PF had got its cards right this time around. In Norton, Temba Mliswa had an element of clout having been chairman of the province so name recognition was easier. Whatever mistakes were made in Norton, it was a learning experience. The party changed tactics and won resoundingly, said Cde Chombo.Zanu-PF candidate, Cde Matsikenyere on Saturday won the Chimanimani West by-election beating three other contestants battling for the seat previously held by expelled Zanu-PF member, Munacho Mutezo.The voting took place smoothly and peacefully and survived the scare of heavy rains that could render some places impassable, with results being announced early morning yesterday. The result banished the ruling party s recent loss in Norton, and Zanu-PF s relief was evident.Cde Matsikenyere attributed her win to unity within the party and a campaign blitz that saw heavies descending on Chimanimani to drum up her support. This win was as a result of unity and the support that we got from national, provincial and district levels, said Cde Matsikenyere. There was no disunity and we worked together as one team, she said. She said Chimanimani West would never be the same again . We are going to champion development through projects for youth and women. We are going to provide water to the people already we have sunk boreholes and we are going to undertake de-siltation of dams so that they hold enough for irrigation activities, pledged Cde Matsikenyere.Her closest rival, Mr Mtetwa, conceded defeat but claimed there had been intimidation of the electorate, although no official reports confirmed this.