U.N. Envoy Urges Ceasefire In Somalia (Picture from cbnews.com)MOGADISHU. &#8211; Envoys of the United Nations and the Africa Union (AU) have intensified talks on a ceasefire in the central Somali town of Galkayo, where clashes between rival state forces have killed more than 45 people and displaced 90 000 in the past six weeks. In a joint statement issued Wednesday, the envoys said talks between President Abdiweli Mohamed Ali Gaas of Puntland state and President Abdikarim Hussein Guled of Galmudug state resumed on Tuesday to secure the ceasefire. A ceasefire mechanism and withdrawal of fighting on both sides is essential for conflict resolution said the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General in Somalia Michael Keating.Clashes continued in Galkayo earlier this month despite a peace deal reached on November 1 between the state leaders in Abu Dhabi.Galkayo is currently divided into two districts, with the southern one governed by Galmudug and the north controlled by Puntland. The town has been beset by recurrent clashes between Galmudug and Puntland forces. No one will gain from a resumption of fighting, and the local population on both sides will suffer further &#8211; citizens of the town, people in neighbouring areas, displaced people, children, the business community . . . everyone. The only beneficiaries of continued conflict are violent extremists, Keating said.The envoys said they met with traditional leaders, clan elders and youths from both sides of the conflict on Tuesday to listen to their concerns and proposals and to find root causes of the conflict.A fragile calm has prevailed in Galkayo over the past week, Keating said, adding an 18-member joint committee has been formed to oversee the implementation of the ceasefire, and that talks are underway for a reconciliation process. According to the statement, talks would continue between the state leaders on the pull-back of forces of both sides and on a mechanism to ensure the ceasefire. - Xinhua.