The late Leonard DemboArts Correspondent &#8212; Old skool music lovers will be in for a treat at Junction 24 along Harare-Chitungwiza highway where musicians will revisit yesteryear hits today and tomorrow. Zim Select Band will have the mandate to take people down memory lane tonight while Sasha and her Talking Guitars will be on stage tomorrow.Event organisers said they invited the groups to celebrate old skool music with young musicians that often revisit hits from great musicians like Leonard Dembo, Simon Chimbetu, Tongai Moyo, John Chibadura, Tembo Brothers, Ilanga, Chiwoniso Maraire and James Chimombe among others. There are a number of joints that hire DJs to play old skool music, but we have decided to do it differently. We want to have the old hits live on stage and these bands are good at doing copyrights of classic songs from yesteryear musicians, said one of the organisers. Yes, they will play their own compositions, which are also good, but our focus is mainly on old skool music. Many mature patrons come to our venue, so we want them to dance to the old hits that will definitely rekindle memories of their past experiences. Sasha said she is happy to take her group to the popular joint for tomorrow s slot. We have our own compositions that are popular, but most of our fans obviously prefer old hits. My guitarists are good and they can play most of the hits. We will be asking the patrons to request their favourite songs from yesteryear musicians and we will play the tracks, said Sasha.Junction 24 director Tavepi Madzingira said the old skool sessions were added to their array of provisions following requests from fans. We always listen to our patrons. Old skool will be part of our festive season programme. We are happy with the response we are getting from merrymakers. The place is ideal for family and late-night outing, so we have patrons from all walks of life, said Madzingira. Junction 24 is an ideal corporate and family entertainment joint. Besides collective entertainment, it can also host more than four functions of 200 people each at the same time. So far we have hosted corporate functions, graduation parties, family reunion gatherings and college parties. Most patrons that come for these functions always return on their own and we take their requests, which has led to the emergence of these old skool sessions. 