Robert GumburaSamantha Chigogo Herald Correspondent&#8212;The Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Services (ZPCS) has rubbished reports that notorious criminals, Robert Gumbura and Peter Gombo escaped Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison over the weekend, saying the two remained safely locked away from the public. This comes after three prisoners escaped from Karoi Prison on Friday and were all recaptured with the help of the public yesterday.ZPCS acting public relations officer Superintendent Priscilla Mthembo said Gumbura remained locked up. ZPCS would like to reassure members of the public that Robert Martin Gumbura and Peter Gombo are still securely in custody, serving their terms of imprisonment, she said. This is contrary to a story that is circulating on social media to the effect that the two escaped from Chikurubi Maximum Prison at the weekend.Supt Mthembo said ZPCS would not tolerate prison breaks countrywide. Three inmates broke out of Karoi Prison during the early hours of Friday, 14 November, 2016 and these inmates are Cover Warasi , Confidence Matemachani and Anyway Masukura, she said. The three have since been recaptured after tip-offs by members of the public. She said circumstances surrounding the prison break would be investigated. Cover Warasi was recaptured at Rhama Farm, which is a few kilometres from the Karoi Prison, whilst Confidence Matemachani was caught hiding at a tobacco barn at Love Farm and, Anyway Masukura was recaptured at Katsanga area at his sister s house during the early hours of Monday morning, Supt Mthembo said. Investigations are currently underway to establish the circumstances leading to the prison break. Supt Mthembo said conniving with escaped prisoners was a criminal offence that members of the public should desist from. Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Services commends members of the public who assisted in the recapturing of these escapees, she said. We would also like to warn those who are in the tendency of harbouring escaped prisoners that this is a criminal offence that can land them in prison according to the Prisons Act Chapter 7:11. She said the three escapees would appear in court facing charges of escaping from lawful custody.Among the three escapees was a murderer, an armed robber and a burglar.