From Abel Zhakata in ChimanimaniZanu-PF winds up its campaigns today ahead of the Chimanimani West by-election slated for tomorrow with six rallies being held yesterday in Nhedziwa, Mhandarume, Mhakwe, Chikwakwa, Gudyanga and Tsongore. The Nhedziwe and Mhandarume rallies were addressed by the party s secretary for administration, Dr Ignatius Chombo, who was accompanied by secretary for transport and welfare, Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, secretary for youth affairs Cde Kudzai Chipanga, secretary for economic affairs Dr Chris Mushohwe and central committee member Cde Mandi Chimene.Buhera South legislator Cde Joseph Chinotimba led the team that campaigned in Gudyanga and Tsongore while Dangamvura-Chikanga legislator Cde Isau Mupfumi, held rallies in Mhakwe and Chikwakwa.Zanu-PF s candidate Cde Nokuthula Matsikenyere, will battle it out with Mr Peter Gudyanga (Renewal Democrats of Zimbabwe), Mr Edmore Mtetwa (Independent) and Mr Pesanai Musakaruka (National Constitutional Assembly).Dr Chombo who is also Home Affairs Minister, urged the voters to cast their ballots peacefully and wisely. He said police officers were deployed to ensure peaceful elections at polling stations and the constituency in general. We win elections by voting in large numbers and we are going to do so peacefully. We have deployed enough police officers to maintain peace during and after the elections, he said.Dr Chombo promised the electorate a better future if they voted for Zanu-PF s candidate in the by- election.He said independent candidates and opposition political parties did not have the stamina to solve problems facing the Chimanimani West constituency. Let us vote wisely on Saturday and ensure that Zanu-PF wins resoundingly. We don t want a repeat of what happened in Norton.AAMy message to you is that we went to a primary election and the people spoke and chose Cde Matsikenyere ahead of other contestants. Let us leave our differences aside, he said.Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri, who is also Environment, Water and Climate Minister, castigated the Zimbabwe National Water Authority for cutting supplies to irrigation farmers over unpaid arrears. Zanu-PF takes care of its own people. Your candidate, Cde Matsikenyere is a hardworking woman. In less than a month, she has done a lot of work even if you have not yet voted for her.What she has done in that short space was never achieved by Engineer Munacho Mutezo who had his own personal interests. We will rehabilitate irrigation schemes and ensure that each school gets a borehole. We will construct small dams and weirs and ensure that we have enough water to irrigate our land as well as give our livestock. All this is achievable, if we vote for Zanu-PF and not independent candidates, she said.Cde Chimene, who is the Minister of State for Manicaland Provincial Affairs called for unity among party supporters.She urged the electorate to flush out rogue elements that derail party programmes and scare away would-be supporters.