Tafadzwa Zimoyo and Tawanda MatanhireThe much-vaunted inaugural Zimbabwe Radio Awards (ZiRA), held at 1+1 Loncheng Plaza in Harare flopped dismally owing to poor organisation. The awards, which had been persistently postponed also had the venue changed on the 11th hour from Celebration Centre to 1+1 Bar. We want to sue the Celebration Centre venue officials for abandoning us last minute. They stated that they have another church event happening, so they couldn t accommodate us, yet we had already booked. This was last minute, resulting in us seeking last minute venue at 1+1 bar, said Maxwell Nyatsambo, ZiRA spokesperson.This did not go down well with some nominees failing to attend the event. According to a close source, the selected host for the red carpet interviews, Lillian Madyara affectionately known as Hollywood Lee pulled out because of the disorganisation.As if that was not enough embarrassment, the event started two hours late because of poor attendance and since the venue was booked to 10pm, everyone was later chucked out hurriedly for the next event before the show ended.The awards were later announced haphazardly with the master of ceremonies announcing winners without nomination because of time. Again, many people were later shocked to hear and see that some of the nominees were cut to three names contrary to the lists that were published. The organisers broke the record in the history of arts in Zimbabwe for having a nomination list with more than 100 names in about 30 categories.The event which was organised by online magazine Celebrity Check saw bubbly newsbae Rumbidzai Takawira and Justin Mahlahla hosting the show with no guest of honour.The show acted like a talent show as only upcoming musicians like K Gee 40, Nicci Cavaji and Dj Smith among others put a lukewarm performance while Dj Bhelo cum comedian looked like a lost soul in bar as he dished out dry jokes centred on radio.Hip-hop sensation Blessed Zikhali, affectionately known as 8L, could not perform as planned because of time. Beatboxer Probeatz managed to light up the stage with his electrifying performance which left the crowd in awe. ZBC radio stations such as Power FM, Radio Zimbabwe, Sport FM and National FM among others deejays dominated the awards as they scooped most categories.A clear analysis showed that since these were inaugural awards, it was better off just to appreciate the good works by those who started radio rather than having a voting (competition) as it was now obvious after it emerged that the pioneers scooped most awards.It was later boring after most winners who were not present to do their acceptance speech moments of fame as other workmates later collected the prize for them. Zimpapers Star FM radio presenters, KVG won the Most Popular Urban Female Presenter while Dj Mox scooped Best Urban Male Presenter. Speaking at the event, Nyatsambo said he was delighted witnessing the groundbreaking ceremony. ZiRA are first of its kind celebrating the radio personalities and force behind radio. It wasn t easy and need to thank everyone who understood our call last minute. Congrats to the winners, through your support next year would be bigger and better. Some thought we would embark the show. We even visited sangoma and churches for this event to be a success. We know media wants to make news and thank you for covering us, he said.Radio personality Zandile Ndlovu better known as The Zazalicious One said the initiative was great, but it was rushed and the treatment they received from organisers wasn t good. The initiative was great, however, it was rushed. Such kinds of events that have public personalities as ourselves will put them in the spotlight (Organisers). As nominees we weren t updated on changes. Even at the event not even refreshments were given to us. What was really meant to be a night of celebrating radio excellence felt far from it? As custodians of radio programs we deserve to be treated like the radio royalty that we are, she said.Some who commented provided that their identity is protected said the National Arts Council should chip in next year including sponsors. I think the arts council should assist such initiative because we won t be tolerating next year. The awards are good as they are recognising the works by those behind the microphone but they should be handled proper and allow room for creative. They acted like a prize given ceremony, nothing serious. Whoever holding the license to do such should do much research and have resources to avoid loopholes, she said.However, the awards ran under the theme, Honouring a celebrity behind a celebrity a brainchild of Agrippa Palaz and Munashe Chidongwe.The awards are meant for radio personalities, in recognition of their work in informing and entertaining people while at the same time motivating them to work hard.Below is the full list of winners:Best Urban Female Presenter/Producer ButterphlyBest Urban Male Presenter/ Producer Dj MoxMost Popular Vernacular Language Female Presenter/ Producer Tarisai ChipereMost Popular Vernacular Language Male Presenter/Producer Godfrey GwejeMost Popular Urban Female Presenter/Producer KVGMost Popular Urban Male Presenter/Producer ScottBest DJ by Genre Hip Hop ElroyBest Dancehall Dj TemplemanBest Rhythm n Blues and Soul Soul ProFoundBest Sungura dj Season NdunduBest Urban Grooves Season NdunduBest Old Skul 60 /70 /80 /90 s Robison UmariBest Gospel Dj Richmond SiyakurimaBest Jazz Dj Lionel MkhandlaBest House Dj Mercy NdlovuMost Humorous Producer/Presenter Richmond Siyakurima Best Vernacular Language Female news anchor Lucie Ngosolo Best Vernacular Language Male News Anchor Wadzanai MomberaBest Urban female news anchor Martha MamombeBest Urban Male News Farai MarumaiBest Vernacular Language Talk show Presenter Soneni SibandaUrban Talk Show presenter Lionel MkhandlaBest Sports Reporter Male Ezra KaundaBest Sports Reporter Female Patricia JacobVernacular Language Sports Commentator Andrew Mupembe Urban Sports Commentator Jabulani Ncube