Princess Corrina Zu SaynTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter&#8212; German princess Corinna Zu Sayn-Wittgenstein is expected in Zimbabwe this Thursday ahead of Miss Tourism Zimbabwe 2016 scheduled to take place on Friday at Rainbow Towers. The princess will fly in with her team together with other dignitaries across Africa to be part of this highly prestigious event. Media personnel for the philanthropist, Salamander Davoudi said the princess was not new to Zimbabwean soil as she has visited on various occasions on business. Corinna Zu-Sayn-Wittgenstein is a long-time advocate of women s empowerment and her upcoming visit to Zimbabwe reflects her commitment to raise awareness for women s cause across Africa. She will be attending the pageant and looks forward to meeting the finalists, hearing their ambition, she said. Davoudi said the princess will take time to highlight conservation efforts in the country. I passionately believe in the importance of mentoring young women and helping them find their voice. I will also look at the conservation efforts after the pageant including the efforts by The Tikki Hywood Trust to save the pangolin, which is listed as critically endangered by the International Union for Conversation of Nature Resources, she said.Fifteen models are expected to battle for the honours this Friday at the beauty pageant. An elimination exercise was done in Harare last week and two models were booted out, leaving 15 finalists who will go for the coveted title.The girls have begun rehearsals although they were still continuing with their grooming lessons. Organisers of the pageant have since engaged local designers who are busy putting final touches on the garments.Some of the stage equipment has since arrived from South Africa with the technical team working flat out to put some final touches to the programme. A spokesperson for the event said tickets were already selling. As promised we want to maintain the high class world standards, just like what we see at the Miss World pageants. We are trying to bring it home and setting the record straight. So far, we have many surprises, including the red carpet affair hosts and staging. We are putting a green carpet , something out of this world and guests will be interviewed. We have several hosts which will entertain from standard to VIP. There is a VIP lounge soon after the red carpet which will accommodate guests for networking, said the pageant s spokesperson.