Donald TrumpAS the world yesterday woke up to news of Republican presidential contender Donald Trump s stunning win against rival Hillary Clinton of the Democratic party in Tuesday s election, congratulatory messages started pouring in from a number of African leaders. South Africa s department of International Relations said in a statement: President Jacob Zuma has today, on behalf of the government and the people of South Africa, congratulated president-elect Donald Trump for winning the presidential elections that were held in the United States on November 8 2016. President Zuma conveyed his best wishes to the president-elect and looked forward to working with president-elect Trump to build on the strong relations that exist between the two countries. He underlined that South Africa further looked forward to working closely with the new administration in the United States in promoting peace, security and prosperity around the world, especially on the African continent. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta who congratulated both President-elect Trump and defeated aspirant Clinton said the American people had spoken. The American people have spoken, and they have spoken clearly. They have chosen Donald Trump as their 45th President. Kenya congratulates Mr Trump for his victorious campaign, and his main opponent, Mrs Hillary Clinton, for her valiant effort. The ties that bind Kenya and the United States of America are close and strong. They are old, and based in the values that we hold dear: in democracy, in the rule of law, and in the equality of peoples. These values remain dear to the peoples of both nations, and so our friendship will endure. Kenya is homeland of outgoing President Barack Obama s father.Obama s elder brother, Malik Obama also celebrated Trump s win in a Twitter message, and later sent another tweet attacking his brother.President Fattah al-Sisi of Egypt wished Trump the best in his new position and invited him to visit Egypt at the earlier opportunity.And, Nigerian president Muhammad Buhari also tweeted Trump congratulating him on his victory over Clinton: On behalf of the govt and people of Nigeria, I congratulate President-elect @realDonaldTrump on his victory in the US presidential election. I look forward to working together with President-elect Trump to build and strengthen relations between Nigeria &amp; the USA. Rwanda s President Paul Kagame said in his message that Trump s victory was well earned and he looked forward to work with the Trump administration.Other African leaders that have congratulated Trump include Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, Ali Bongo of Gabon, and Ibrahim Boubacar Ke ta of Mali, among others.The felicitous messages were conveyed as leading South African foreign affairs correspondent Simon Allison gave a perspective on what the Trump s victory means for Africa.Writing in the Daily Maverick Allison says, Trump doesn t like trade deals, especially ones that he thinks are weighted against America. The African Growth and Opportunity Act (Agoa) is a prime example: It s designed to give African countries easier access to US markets by scrapping import duties on certain goods. Non-oil exports from Africa to the US, under the auspices of Agoa, have now reached $4.1bn ( 3.3bn), which makes it a vital economic lifeline for the continent. Chicken farmers aside, South African businesses have been among the major beneficiaries of the trade deal, but how long will a Trump administration maintain this tax-free access to US markets? Commenting on aid he said, Trump is not a fan of foreign aid, and America s extensive aid programme is likely to suffer significant cuts. So what, some might say; aid is always a controversial topic, with the jury still very much out on whether it does more harm than good. Nonetheless, in the short term, expect cuts to key infrastructure and healthcare programmes across the continent, with no other foreign donors likely to step in to fill gaps. Herald Reporter/Angencies.