Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Boxing Federation are expected to finally elect a new substantive committee today to replace the previous one that was suspended by the Sports Commission early this year. The elections will be held at the Sports Commission s headquarters at the National Sports Stadium. ZBF are one of the national associations whose executives were suspended for two years early this year for failing to comply with the provisions of the Sports Commission Act.The other associations are Zimbabwe Handball Federation, whose elections have been slated for December 3 and Zimbabwe Wushu Federation, which will be under the supervision of an interim committee until June 2017.The nominations for the boxing elections are already in and Sports Commission development manager, Charity Nyamayedenga confirmed the elections will be held today after meeting with the stakeholders recently in Harare.The previous executive was led by Lovemore Malianga. We had a follow-up meeting for the elections and they are going ahead on Saturday. We wanted to make sure everything was on course, on our preparations we were looking at issues to do with verification of the electorate. We were basically looking at who is eligible to vote and issues to do with the nomination process, said Nyamayedenga.The posts up for grabs are the president, vice-president, secretary-general and treasurer. And of the four vacancies only the president will be elected today after two nominees &#8211; Jimmie Mpalale and Festus Dumbu were submitted.The other three will be filled by Isaac Gora, who was nominated for the vice-president s post while Arvin Mathe will become the secretary-general. Eireen Mahleka comes in as the treasurer. The nominations are in for the posts to be contested and for the vice-president, secretary-general and treasurer we have unopposed nominations. For the president we have two nominations and it means we are going to have elections for one post, said Nyamayedenga.The Sports Commission development manager said they are in the process of verifying nominations for handball and for Wushu the interim committee is expected to convene for the first time on December 17.