The seemingly happy couple has achieved a lot working togetherTawanda Matanhire Lifestyle Reporter&#8212;Entertainment is one of the most lucrative industries in the world which has produced millionaire celebrities in some parts of the globe. In Africa, musicians like Salif Keita, Fally Ipupa, Diamond Platinumz, D Banj, Whiz Kid, P Square, Davido and Don Jazzy, to mention a few, have earned respect and appreciation through their contribution to the music world.In Zimbabwe, superstar Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi has also done well on the international forum, receiving awards and dominating on international radio stations.The man who devoted his life to be breeding young artistes also initiated his third born daughter Selmor into the entertainment arena at a very tender age and today she stands on her own as an independent brand who has made a name for herself and is continuing to build her influence across theglobe.Now married to fellow musician and fiery guitarist Tendai Manatsa born to legendary musician Zexie Manatsa Selmor began her career at 18 and never looked back.The couple is blessed with three children namely Ben, Troy and HannahTendai and Selmor have done a lot together in the music industry and they are known in social circles for their public exhibition of affection.The Saturday Herald Lifestyle caught up with the couple as they were preparing for a corporate function at a local hotel where they revealed that since they met in 2002 while working with Jazz crooner Tanga WekwaSando their connection has never faded as they have devoted their lives to music and family. Professionally I got into music in 2002 when my friend introduced me to Tanga WekwaSando and I became his backing vocalist, Selmor said. I learnt a lot from Tanga because he is a perfectionist and I always had to do things right. He taught me a lot of things which I apply even today. This is where I met my husband who was also working as a guitarist. We were friends for two years until we started dating. On the other hand Manatsa said he liked Selmor from the onset when they started working together at Tanga WekwaSando s band.They do most things together and they have joint albums Ndinewe I am with You and Tendai and Selmor Live . When I saw this girl I really got in love and it was only a matter of time before I could confidently come out in the open about my feelings, said Manatsa with a chuckle.The seemingly happy couple has achieved a lot working together and since they launched their careers as musicians they have toured around the world to countries which include South Africa, Belgium, United States of America, Great Britain, Finland, Namibia, Germany, Poland, Australia and Spain to mention a few.Selmor is an Afro-jazz artiste and an actress whose talent has been noticed internationally as she has also received several awards from many countries.Among the awards are NAMA, African Entertainment Award (AEA), ZNCC and AFRIMA among others.She revealed that before music she has always been an actress. I started acting as kid when my dad took me to a film that was being directed by the late Godwin Mawuru called I Am the future . I was 10 years old then and I became an actress and later did a lot of other films and theatre thereafter, Selmor said. So I got into acting professionally before I became a musician. It s easy to merge the two because if you are a musician you are most likely to become an actor, it s all art. Selmor features on the new movie Escape and her role has somewhat sparked controversy especially in the media as well as with women s organisations.Most people are against her role involving a level of intimacy in Escape especially the idea of a married woman caressing and kissing another man, but her husband defends his wife s scenes in the film. Before I met Selmor she was an actress and she will not stop because we are married. When I got married to her I knew who I was marrying, Tendai explained. We are a family of art that is what we chose and I will support her all the way. The couple has had their fair share of challenges, but they choose to be happy for the greater part of their time and try to balance family time with their artistic careers. When it s family time we do family business and when its work we do likewise. We will go wherever art is taking us as a family either film or music, Tendai said.The couple is blessed with three children namely Ben, Troy and Hannah and in their spare time they enjoy visiting tourist attractions as a family.They do most things together and they have joint albums Ndinewe I am with You and Tendai and Selmor Live .Selmor and TendaiThey both value experience and inspiration they get from their parents although Selmor is no longer in good books with her father Tuku because of various family issues.In addition to her vocal talent Selmor has mastered the art of playing hosho and mbira which is complemented by her mhande dance moves.Tendai said he has never known any form of employment except music where he found a complementing wife and together vowed to support each other all the way. The only thing I really know is music and I was fortunate enough to marry Selmor who is into different forms of art. After being exposed to global music platforms the Manatsa family feels that more still needs to be done for Zimbabwe to have an entertainment industry of global appeal. There is no real entertainment industry to talk about here, what is happening here can be equated to wrestling survival series. All what artistes are trying to do is to survive otherwise there is nothing happening as compared to other countries, Tendai said. Artistes need support from the corporate world otherwise there is vast talent here as compared to other countries but it has to be harnessed. It s so surprising how we are respected when we go out to other countries, you would not even just get nearer to me just like that but when we are back here a musician or an artiste is not given the respect they deserve. I am just talking in terms of the value that the industry has beyond our borders. Selmor added saying even artistes from our neighbour, South Africa get so much support from their own people and such should happen to improve the arts. In South Africa which is just next door Zahara came on board with Loliwe and there she became a strong brand, corporates made her their brand ambassador, she did adverts, banks came on board and within a short space of time she achieved so much as a brand, said Selmor If we had that much support especially also from you the media, things could have been better. Filling up HICC is such a big deal yet in SA Casper Nyovest is filling up stadiums getting support from his own yet here not so many would rally behind you so how do we grow and industry. Manatsa also said we as a country should emulate other countries and take the arts industry as of great importance because it can also generate revenue for the country. We buy films and music from America and to them its revenue why shouldn t we think along those lines locally, Tendai said.