Charles SibandaPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter FC Platinum forward Charles Sibanda believes they will emulate St Paul s Musami by becoming only the second team from outside Harare and Bulawayo to be crowned champions this afternoon. Interestingly, this year is the 50th anniversary of that triumph by St Paul s Musami. The FC Platinum family were fasting yesterday and praying CAPS United will stumble at Ascot and they prevail over giant-killers Tsholotsho in Bulawayo.They have a mathematical chance to clinch it, but they must first beat Tsholotsho and then hope for the best from Chapungu. Interestingly, relations between FC Platinum and Chapungu soured at the beginning of the season when a member of the Gweru side claimed the miners bribed their way to glory.That official was suspended by Chapungu. Now, FC Platinum need a big favour from Chapungu. I think we are going to be the second team in the history of Zimbabwe to take the league title out of Bulawayo and Harare, said Sibanda. We have been trying for the past five years and this is our sixth year and I feel it s high time we lift the silverware. It will be good for us to win and it will be good for the FC Platinum institution. I will be more than happy to win after doing the same in 2010 when I was also crowned the Soccer Star of the Year. I am appealing to the fans to rally behind our team. It s very crucial for us as we need to work hard on the pitch and win and the fans must do the same on the terraces. I am dedicating this match to Wellington Chiyangwa who perished in that accident a month ago. I was in the same car with him and it will be a great thing to lift the league in his honour, said Sibanda.He has scored two goals since rejoining the club in June. Sibanda and Mhango were involved in a head-on accident that claimed the life of Chiyangwa. Number one fan Rodwell Mazambara who was driving the car is recovering.If coach Norman Mapeza wins this afternoon, he will be the hot favourite to lift the Coach of the Year award and Petros Mhari and Winston Mhango will be vying for honours among the Soccer Stars of the Year.If Lloyd Chitembwe lifts the league championship then he is likely to be crowned Coach of the Year next weekend and Leonard Tsipa and Hardlife Zvirekwi could emerge as the best candidates for the Soccer Star of the Year award.FC Platinum believe everything is in their favour after exorcising the ghost that had haunted them in Week 29 for the past five seasons after they stopped Highlanders. For the past five years, the team had been failing to get positive results in Week 29 and in 2011, when they wanted just a draw to lift the league title, they fell at home to Dynamos.Just last season when they needed a positive result in Harare they were held to a 1-1 draw by Flame Lily and their hopes were shattered at Lafarge. Lizwe Sweswe, the Tsholotsho coach who watched the tie between FC Platinum and Highlanders at Mandava, said there will be a tough match this afternoon. We are fighting for survival and they want the championship and all I am saying is that nobody will get the points on a silver platter, he said. They have the confidence after beating Highlanders and we know what we are fighting for. The match is going to be very exciting. He will miss his captain Nkosilathi Moyo through suspension. Apart from Moyo, the team reported a clean bill of health and will bank on the experience of George Magariro, Collins Duwa, Bruno Madamombe and Nickson Goma.FC Platinum will miss the services of Tarisai Rukanda who suffered an ankle injury against Highlanders last Sunday. They will be hopping that underrated, but evergreen Mhango will dictate the pace in midfield.Gerald Takwara returns to the club that sold him to FC Platinum. The miners also have the roving Walter Musona and Marshall Mudehwe who are dangerous on the wings. In defence Gift Bello, Kelvin Moyo and Ian Nekati are expected to frustrate the Tsholotsho strikers and protect Mhari in the process.