Samantha Chigogo Herald Correspondent&#8212;Zimbabwe has the most gender-sensitive Constitution on the continent and Government is finalising the monitoring and evaluation framework for gender equality and women empowerment, a top Government official has said. Speaking at the official launch of the 2016 Sadc Gender Protocol Barometer at the on-going gender protocol summit in Harare yesterday, Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development Minister Nyasha Chikwinya hailed Zimbabwe s efforts towards equality. I am proud to say that the Zimbabwe Constitution has been widely regarded as being the most gender-sensitive constitution in the region, on the continent and even at global level, she said. To capitalise on this positive gain, my ministry is working tirelessly to engender the alignment of laws to the Constitution. Minister Chikwinya said Zimbabwe had successfully overrun regional averages in achieving gender equality: The progress on gender equality in the region is at 69 percent, while Zimbabwe s score is at 70 percent, one percentage point higher than the regional average, she said The region s citizens rated Governments performance on gender equality at 69 percent and Zimbabwe also scored slightly higher at 71 percent and, the above scores show that it is within our reach to achieve gender equality in the region and in our own countries. Minister Chikwinya applauded national efforts to repatriate victims of human trafficking in Kuwait. Government, in collaboration with Parliament and civil society organisations, worked tirelessly to bring survivors of trafficking back home all the way from Kuwait, she said. A national action plan on ending child marriage was developed and awaits official launch. She said the barometer was critical as the year 2016 marks the beginning of implementing the revised Sadc Protocol on Gender and Development in the region. The Sadc gender protocol barometer has proved to be an essential mirror for governments over the years, acting as the yardstick allowing member states to track progress in the implementation of the Sadc Protocol on Gender and Development, Minister Chikwinya said.She however said in terms of legislation, 11 countries had reviewed their constitutions but alignment of laws and their enforcement remained low, hence gender attitudes were still biased in favour of men at 54 percent.Sadc Gender Protocol Alliance chairperson Emma Kaliya said countries in the region should take a leaf from Zimbabwe s success story. Zimbabwe moved so fast on the implementation of the protocol and other countries in the region look up and learn from Zimbabwe on the implementation of the protocol, she said. Your country is showing total progress as it moves to achieve necessary targets aligned to Agenda 2063 and, launching this barometer is a milestone achievement for the alliance and the region as we started tracking implementation since 2009. 