Mugove Chigada Sports Reporter&#8212;FORMER Gunners captain Tinashe Malunga says it was painful hanging up his boots at a young age, but he does not regret opting for a career in the financial sector. The utility player, then nicknamed Djemba, who quit after 2010, could have easily been part of the generation to represent the country at the African Cup of Nations finals in Gabon next year.He was one of the top players produced at the now-defunct but famed Agatha Sheneti, an academy that also produced the likes of Edward Sadomba, Hardlife Zvirekwi and Onismor Bhasera.His arrival along with Bhasera at Lord Malvern High School through an academy scholarship in the year 2000 caused a huge buzz in the schools circles.He never disappointed being the leader of the generation between younger Zvirekwi and his senior Bhasera.Today, instead of being part of players trying to impress the Warriors technical team, Malunga will be leading FBC football club at the Payserv Financial Services League Cup at Barclays Sports Club in Harare. Leaving football was quite regrettable considering how much it had aided in my upbringing and the person I am today. Football is my life and the reason why I am actively involved in the running of the Financial Services Soccer League and still playing the game at every opportunity that I get, said Malunga.The former star said he thought about life after football before he had even reached the apex of his career. I had the zeal to further my studies in a more professional and conducive environment that was supportive to my aspirations. Apart from my banking studies, I have now attained my Bachelor of Laws (LLB). I hope to continue growing. I would have wanted to reach the very top, participate at the major tournaments just like my former teammates but I had to make a difficult decision, he said.The former Gunners star believes there is still a lot that football authorities have to do to ensure every great player opts for the game ahead of everything else. Football in Zimbabwe is not immune to the prevailing economic environment. But what will be important is to invest in grassroots and revive junior football. That can be the starting point to create a team that can go to the World Cup. Asked on the Payserv Financial Services League Cup, he said: FBC football club have a strong team capable of winning this cup if discipline and commitment is there. There is, however, a lot of competition. A total of 16 teams in the financial services sector are taking part and defending champions ZB Bank are also favourites to win at a tournament PSL teams have often scouted for players.