Alexio kawaraSydney Kawadza Senior Writer &#8212; Contemporary jazz crooner Alexio Kawara has done it again. Kawara, an award winning singer, on Monday released his fourth single Hatidzoreke , which has taken the airwaves by storm. Feeding off the high tempo beat that is close to the hearts of his many followers who do not miss his weekly shows, Kawara in Hatidzoreke moved away from his mellow sound for the rhumba beat in the sing along song. He said a video will also be released soon. Hatidzoreke is my fourth song to be released as a single and we are finalising on the video, he said.Kawara said the song was inspired by the need to motivate the hard working people of Zimbabwe who are battling with a number of challenges although they remain strong and resilient. Motivation, I believe is a necessary part of life for everyone, we all need motivation and that is one strength I have in my writing, he said.He said he will release another single before Christmas. We are still deciding on which song to put on the market. Most of the songs are done so it s a matter of just picking one and giving it to the people, he said.Kawara has put on hold releasing an album although he is sitting on more than 18 songs. Last year he released another hit, Zvazvinhu , a collaboration with Beitbridge-based artiste, LT, before unleashing the melodious Nehana in February this year. Kawara paid tribute to his fans for supporting his latest project. The response has been overwhelming considering that the song has been on air for a few days. People are loving the song. One other thing is that I dared myself to be creative and think outside the box. I have never used slang in any of my songs before and the rhumba feel in the song makes it a totally different piece from any of my previous projects, he said.Kawara will officially release the song to his followers during his birthday celebrations set for November 28 at a venue to be announced. The Shaina singer usually celebrates his birthday with a free show in Glen Norah where he grew up.