Tawanda Matanhire Cool Lifestyle Reporter&#8212;Dzivarasekwa born teen Tanya Kapfunde is defying the odds as he has found his first love occupation as a disc jockey and is now getting popular in his neighbourhood. Kapfunde, who is better known as DJ Iceberg Zw, is the last born in a family of four and started deejaying when he was only 12 years old. I was the first youngest DJ in my hood and many people thought this was a joke because I was too young for this thing but my friends and family encouraged me, DJ Iceberg Zw said. I gained confidence to be what I wanted to be from this encouragement and I am happy today that I am pursuing my dream. He said when he started it was out of passion and didn t care if he was getting paid for it and eventually he started getting something out of it. When I started I wasn t getting paid. I just did it for the love of music and for the love of being a DJ but I began getting something after several clients were impressed with my art. Because it is difficult to penetrate any industry when one is not known DJ Iceberg Zw would get short slots at parties around his hood, not so many people believed in him but as he continued doing what he loved the most the reaction and perception of people changed.In 2014 he managed to clinch a deal with a local record label Cashlibs City where he got so much exposure into big meaningful shows. I started playing at small functions and parties in my hood and I was given short time to play because they less people believed in me, he said. In 2014 Cashlibs City discovered my talent and he signed me to become one of the DJs under his label and he then started organizing big shows for me playing for his artiste Nutty O. When I finished Form Four I started playing in clubs and other big shows around Harare, he added. When my contract ended by mid-2015, I started working with Qounfuzed up until April 2016 when he went to Germany for school, he said.His family and friends support have made the young man aim higher as he also still has a point to prove to her mother who still has doubt in his work. I just thank my family and friends who have supported me and this has made me want to do more. I also want my mother who still doubts my capability in this business to see how I have succeeded so far. DJ Iceberg Zw revealed that he is also a gifted football and basketball player but would want to be fully committed his music trade because it is what he loves the most.