Zimpost offers the Small Packet Service for both local and international destinations. Zimpost as Zimbabwe s designated postal operator facilitates the exchange of postal services with other postal operators worldwide. Through its membership to the Universal Postal Union (UPU), the company can receive and send postal items to over 600 000 post offices worldwide. Zimbabweans are urged to exploit this expansive and unparalleled global network of Post Offices to send or receive parcels, small packets and letters at affordable rates. What is a small packet?A small packet is an internationally recognised letter post item weighing between 100g and 2kgs.Acceptance proceduresThe Small Packet Service is ideal for sending small items like CDs, DVDs, catalogues and any small irregular items that are not letters. The packaging of the small packets must ensure the integrity of the contents during transportation.International small packets must be packed so that they may be easily examined by customs authorities without breaking any seal. String may be used to secure the wrapping. International small packets should have CN22 customs declaration forms detailing the contents and value for easy customs clearance.Addressing small packetsThe sender s name and address shall be inscribed at the top left-hand corner of the address side of the small packetThe recipient s name and address shall be written directly on the face of the package from the middle. The words small packet should be written in the upper left corner of the addressee side of the packetPostage stamps shall be affixed at the top right hand corner of the item Posting of small packetsSmall packets should be handed over to the clerk at any postal outlet but should not be placed in a posting boxThe item will be weighed and charged accordingly. An unregistered small packet item is allocated a number using the office alpha codes and a reference in numeric order from January 1 to December 31. Example of how a registered small package item will be numbered is CSY0001/2015MeaningFor the first SP originating from Causeway Post Office in the year 2015. The item is then dispatched to the office of exchange or mail sorting centre by the next available dispatch for onward transmission to its destination.Processing at theOffice of ExchangeAfter a small packet has been received at the office of exchange, it is verified and its weight is checked, a record is created and maintained. The condition and weight of the item is checked and recorded at every processing point. International unregistered small packets are treated as registered letter post items and dispatched together with registered items for enhanced securityConveyance and deliveryat destination countryInternational outbound small packets are transported by the shortest available air route to the country of destination. Upon receipt of the items by a postal partner, the small packets are processed in a similar manner and delivery effected by next available delivery round.Advantages of using the Small Packet ServiceIt reaches all global destinations, (the service is also available within Zimbabwe). The service is affordable, reliable and secure. The service is convenient as it caters for the small, little treasured items that are normally ignored elsewhere The wide variety of items that can be posted under this service means your item can be accommodated too!!! Just confirm with your nearest postal outlet.For more information about Zimpost please contact: Corporate Communications department on; Telephone: 04 -761544 Toll free: 0800 4249/0800 9101 Email: bandam@zimpost.co.zw/ amunembe@zimpost.co.zw Facebook page: Zimpost-Zimbabwe Posts Twitter@: Zimpost Website: www.zimpost.co.zw