Tawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent&#8212;Musicians got a rude awakening this weekend after the rains that pounded the country washed away most weekend shows. On Friday Suluman Chimbetu who was playing at Dandaro Inn , Alick Macheso at playing at Las Vegas and Peter Moyo Destiny Night Club, got a rude awakening when it started raining during their performances.Macheso s camp had to hastily arrange a makeshift venue, as the downpour continued unabated.Rains affected most weekend shows and pundits have since urged musicians to follow weather predictions before engaging promoters for shows.Some promoters said outdoor venues were not the best during this rainy season. Outdoor venues are not advisable during the rainy season otherwise musicians will record flops at their shows, said a local promoter.Music promoter Josh Hozheri said it was good for musicians to follow weather focus reports so that they engage promoters with proper venues. Listening or taking note of weather focus reports is very important because they will be able to plan with the weather outlook in mind, said Hozheri.Chimbetu publicist Joe Nyamungoma said although their weekend shows were not bad, they will have to consider venues to perform because of the rains. The rains have affected everything this weekend. I think that was an experience for us. We are working now on shifting from outdoor venues, he said.Nyamungoma said they would also need to properly market the events.Sukol Dube who is Peter Moyo s manager said the rain season usually affects musicians but there was need to find ways to accommodate fans. There is need to do something because rains are not good for shows. We are hopeful that we come together with promoters and other musicians to manage the rainy season , he said.Some musicians and promoters have been using tents during rainy seasons.Macheso said there was need to do proper marketing and find venues that do not affect their work. Rains can destroy PA systems, it can affect the health of band members and the crowd so we have to find good places for shows, he said.Speaking on the weekend experience the musician said his group got a rude awakening following the rains.