John-NyikadzinoEllina Mhlanga Sports Reporter&#8212;CHAPUNGU coach John Nyikadzino said given a choice he would have preferred to meet any other side besides CAPS United while Tsholotsho gaffer Lizwe Sweswe is bubbling with confidence as the curtain comes down on the season. Nyikadzino s men host the Green Machine at Ascot on Saturday, the same day Sweswe s Tsholotsho take on FC Platinum in Bulawayo, with the two matches having a significant impact on the destiny of the Castle Lager Premiership title.A win for Makepekepe will be enough to seal their first league title in 11 years, while a draw, or loss, could open the window for FC Platinum.Nyikadzino said they know what they are up against and the Green Machine should brace up for a tough encounter. Obviously, we are playing a team that is playing very well, a team that would want to win the league considering their position, they are number one. CAPS United have proved to be one of the best sides this year, one of the most consistent sides. It s a club we give much respect but as a club we will give it our best. Hopefully, we come out with a positive result. Basically what we do as Chapungu, the executive, coaches and players, every match we play to win. From day one we wanted to win, hopefully, we will come right, said Nyikadzino.The Chapungu coach said playing the log leaders was a big motivation in itself but emphasised on the need to raise their game to match their opponents standard. What is good about this game is that its common knowledge that they (CAPS United) are on top of the log, no one needs to be reminded about that. We should come out right, we should work if we are entertaining any hopes of coming out with something, he said. On the psychological part we are going to work and prepare for the game. But, basically, we are facing a big task. If we had an option to avoid CAPS United we would but we have to fulfill all our fixtures and we have to face CAPS United in this last round. And what I know is we are playing a team that has been consistent, a team that is playing well and a team that has a rich history in Zimbabwean football, said Nyikadzino.With their future not certain in the Premiership as they fight relegation, Chapungu are hoping for maximum points.Both CAPS United and FC Platinum will be away on Saturday with FC Platinum travelling to Bulawayo for their encounter against Tsholotsho at Luveve.Sweswe said they remain positive despite being in the murky waters of relegation. It s a big game in itself. It s a decider for both of the teams, Platinum fighting for the championship and us fighting for survival. It s a big game, so we have to make sure we prepare ourselves well. The boys are positive, said Sweswe. Sometimes as a team you must have character, you must have those boys or players who will fight in such big games. That s how you market yourself, that s how you showcase talent, when you win such games. It s a game every player is looking forward to. Sweswe, however, acknowledges it s not going to be a stroll in the park for both sides and urged Tsholotsho fans to rally behind the team come Saturday. I expect a tough match against (FC) Platinum. They are an organised team, it s a well sponsored institution and if you look at everything they do, it s well organised, they have good players and they are a good side. But all those things don t matter when it s 3 o clock, we are all equal. They (fans) should come and rally behind the team, it s an important game for us where we are going to fight for the next season, said Sweswe.FixturesFriday: Bulawayo City v How Mine (Barbourfields), Harare City v Triangle United (Rufaro).Saturday: Dynamos v Chicken Inn (Rufaro), Highlanders v Hwange (Barbourfields), Chapungu v CAPS United (Ascot), Tsholotsho v FC Platinum (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Mutare City Rovers (Baobab), Border Strikers v ZPC Kariba (Dulivhadzimu).