Ye are the salt of the earth; but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven, Matthew 5:13-16It is amazing how God expects me to believe everything that He says. Everything He says is believable. It is very important for us to understand what Jesus calls us.When He said that we are a city that is built upon the mountain top that cannot be hid, there is something that has to be imprinted in our minds. What God is going to do through us cannot be hidden.There is going to be a level of excellency upon our generation that can never be hidden. God is going to do things that are beyond our imagination in our lives. A city is an establishment. God is building our generation at a place where people will just look at us, admire and glorify God.Success in our lives shall never be private and it will never be a secret. Even the children you have given birth to shall succeed, flourish, multiply and increase to a level where they shall never be ignored.We are not just human beings but we are cities, God is constructing us and we are not villages but cities. In the word of God the kingdom of God is likened to yeast which can leaven the whole dough by just putting a small amount of it.You have to understand the power you have to influence the whole community. It is not about the number, the measure of yeast is always smaller than the measure of the dough.It has to enter your mind that you do not have to be many in your generation to influence the entire generation, one person is able to do that.Jesus calls us the light of the world. In the book of Ephesians 5:13 Paul says But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light; for whatsoever doth make manifest is light. He is calling anything that makes anything to manifest light. If you can come close to somebody and you cause that person to manifest you are light. When people can come closer to you and begin to manifest no matter the kind of manifestation whether it is demonic you are light.When people look at you every time and they feel angry and would want to attack you it is a manifestation again because you are light. No matter how people pretend to be righteous but the moment they see your success and there is indignation, envy and jealousy in them, it s a sign that you cause the devil hiding inside them to manifest because you are light.Some people, no matter how good they might be but the moment they look at you they manifest because you are light and you cause everything to be reproved and to manifest.Your presence causes people to manifest, look at how some people frown when they look at you.If the lights are switched off in darkness you cease to see the person next to you. It is not because the person is no longer there but you just cannot see him.If the person would want to act anyhow in the presence of darkness you will not see anything. It means every effort in the absence of light is useless.Your family needs you, your brothers need you and this nation needs us because without us children of God the economy can never manifest. You carry that ability that can cause other things to manifest. You cannot be around the light and remain the same. You are an attraction and you cannot be ignored, you cause everything to shine.Jesus said that we are the salt of the earth, not the salt of heaven which means we must manifest on the earth. We must not wait to manifest in heaven.When salt has lost its savour it has to be thrown away for it will be good for nothing. People will have to accept you into their systems but the moment you lose your flavour you will have to be cast out of their systems. What keeps you in the systems is your taste. Understand that when Jesus calls you salt it means you carry a flavour.When you are continuously rejected by systems, they will not have any taste when you are not part of them. The entire financial structure without you does not have any flavour. When the earth really wants to be enjoyed it has to be willing to accept you.When you are invited into structures and systems as salt or when you willingly walk into organisations, there has to be a willingness to be dissolved on your part as salt.This is something that we usually pray against, some people do not want to be in environments that dissolve them. When Jesus told us that we are salt we were so excited but unless and until salt is willing to disappear into the system it cannot serve its purpose.Unless the salt is willing to be dissolved by the systems it cannot transfer its flavour into the systems. There is a moment in your life of disappearance, you can spend five years as if you are not present or like you are dead.Jesus had to spend 30 years just for His three years of manifestation and flavouring of the earth.https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline+263 4 339341+263 783 183 331info@emmanuelmakandiwa.com