From Walter Nyamukondiwa in KARIBA&#8212;Kariba residents are living in fear of being attacked by lions following regular cases of the beasts being seen in residential areas. So far, seven dogs have been killed. In the latest incident, a dog was mauled last Friday night outside the yard of a Nyamhunga home. Yemurai Matashu who witnessed the incident at the Nyamhunga turn-off from the Kariba-Makuti Road, said he first saw the dog barking facing towards an adjacent bush. I was seated with my friend while waiting for people to fish when we saw the dog barking facing the bush. We suspected it could have been seeing a lion. Suddenly, we saw some dust and the dog made one loud cry before it went quiet, he said.They then saw a lion dragging the dog and disappearing into the dark.Another witness said the incident was swift and frightening, and they went on to call the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority rangers who fired several shots to scare the cats.However, soon after the rangers left, some people came reporting that they had spotted two lions surrounding what looked like a dog along the Kariba-Makuti Road.The lions reportedly picked up the animal and again disappeared into a nearby bush.When The Herald visited the scene of the attack, animal prints could be seen, although they had been slightly disturbed by the rains. The fear that has gripped the town has affected normal business.Residents have called on the Zimbabwe Parks to move the animals away from residential areas as they pause a great risk to people. We are living in constant fear because just having them in residential areas is scary, while attacks on dogs is even scarier because when they have decimated the dogs, then what? It means they will target humans, said Victor Machanawo.Some believe that the animals are now drawing closer to human habitats because most watering holes have dried up and prey is moving closer to Lake Kariba where water is guaranteed.Apostolic sect members who congregate in open spaces in the bush have had to revise their programmes.Killings of dogs have been reported in the Chawara, Nyanhewe and Nyamhunga areas.No comment could be obtained from the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority.