Samantha Chigogo Herald CorrespondentZimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) officers are a cut above the rest in international peacekeeping operations and the policing body should strive to continue enforcing peaceful negotiations worldwide, Police Commissioner-General Dr Augustine Chihuri has said. Yesterday the police welcomed two officers from a one-year international peacekeeping duty in Liberia under the mandate of the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations (UNDPKO)The event also marked the farewell of five more officers who were proceeding for the same international duties in Adyei, Sudan.In a speech read on his behalf by Deputy Commissioner-General (Human Resources) Levy Sibanda, at the debriefing of Abyei and Liberia contingents, Commissioner-General of Police Dr Augustine Chihuri hailed Zimbabwe s efforts on the international map. Our officers have individually and collectively earned their stripes as faithful ambassadors and most importantly as dependable stewards of the confidence and trust that has been reposed upon by the organisation and the country, he said. The widely acknowledged and attested contribution of our officers to international peacekeeping duty has become a matter of record and acclaim. Comm-Gen Chihuri said Zimbabwe international missions were significant in exposing the devastating effects of war on any country s economy. We have from time to time heard reports from the returning contingents of the devastating consequences of war, he said When peace is lost there is war, turmoil, unrest and women and children are most vulnerable. War mutes and arrests the development and progress of a nation with generational consequences. He urged the police to rally behind President Mugabe s special call for a peaceful nation. We need as a nation to continue to uphold the call by our President, Head of State and Government Cde RG Mugabe to uphold peace for the progress and development of the nation, Comm-Gen Chihuri said. Peace is a divine gift and it is in this same regard that the Zimbabwe Republic Police has come up with the policing theme for 2017 which reads, ZRP serving and safeguarding peace and security in grace, stability and nationhood. Comm-Gen Chihuri said officers should remain dedicated as international duties required commitment. As I have had the occasion to say, international peacekeeping duties are not a stroll in the park, certainly these duties are not nomadic expeditions, he said. It is in this respect that I would like to thank our officers most heartily for continuing to distinguish themselves on these onerous international duties. Over the years ZRP has maintained a fair share of recognition in international peacekeeping operations worldwide.World bodies like the United Nations have continuously sought the skills and expertise from officers in the ZRP in policing troubled spots in the world.