PERTH. Australia s quicks ran through South Africa before David Warner raced to an unbeaten fifty as Australia reached 105-0 at stumps on the first day of the first Test at the Waca yesterday. Left-arm quick Mitchell Starc captured 4-71 while Josh Hazlewood nabbed 3-70 as South Africa were bowled out for 242 despite a fine 84 off 101 balls from Quinton de Kock while Temba Bavuma weighed in with 51. It s only early days, but we couldn t have asked for much more on day one of the summer, he said. There were a few nerves in the dressing room at the start of the day. To bowl South Africa out, with their pretty experienced line-up, and then be none for 100 at the end of the day, we are pretty happy with that. SuperSportWarner then launched an attack as he smashed his way to 73 not out off just 62 balls with 13 fours and a six as Australia ended the day trailing the Proteas by just 137 runs in the first innings.Shaun Marsh was not out on 29 at the close as the opening pair took advantage of a South Africa bowling performance that relied far too much on the short ball when a fuller length was called for.Warner did enjoy a life, on 17, when he was given not out to a leg-before decision off the bowling of Philander. SA asked for a review and replays showed that Warner would have been out but Philander had bowled a no ball.Bavuma said they were still in the match and would be desperate to atone on day two. It s only one day of cricket where we played badly, he said. It s quite obvious Australia have the upper hand but the game is far from over. What s happened has happened, our performance in the first session tomorrow will give us a chance to get back into the game. The morning belonged to Australia s quicks after South Africa won the toss and elected to bat with Keshav Maharaj named to play his debut test for the Proteas. Stephen Cook (0) was out in the first over when he was squared up by a Starc delivery to send a thick outside edge flying towards gully with Mitchell Marsh taking a fine catch, diving to his left.Hazlewood struck as Hashim Amla (0) was forced to play at a delivery outside his off stump that left him off the pitch to send an outside edge to Steve Smith at second slip. Dean Elgar (12) was the next man to depart when he tried to pull out of playing at a Hazlewood delivery only to feather an inside edge through to keeper Peter Nevill.Peter Siddle took centre stage and he had JP Duminy (11) also caught behind off an inside edge, although Duminy reviewed the decision but replays showed the inside edge before the ball clipped off Duminy s back leg as South Africa crashed to 32-4 inside 13 overs.Faf du Plessis (37) fell soon after lunch when he tried to force a back-foot drive off a Starc delivery, only to send an outside edge to Adam Voges at first slip. De Kock and Bavuma tried to add some respectability to the score as they shared in a 71-run sixth-wicket stand off 15.4 overs.Bavuma, who brought up his fifty off 84 balls, was out two balls later when he was superbly caught by Shaun Marsh at short leg off a delivery from offspinner Nathan Lyon. Philander (10) was out to a loose shot just before tea when he chopped a Starc delivery onto his stumps before Maharaj (16) and De Kock added 48 runs for the eighth wicket.But Maharaj holed out to long-on off the bowling of Lyon before De Kock, who had brought up his fifty off 67 balls, top edged a Hazlewood delivery to short midwicket.Starc wrapped the innings up when he bowled Dale Steyn (4) with a yorker. MWP.