KEEPING CALM . . . Tatenda Mukuruva maintains he is unfazed by some critics questioning his selection as Warriors first choice goalkeeperPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter DYNAMOS and Zimbabwe number one goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva has vowed to keep on working hard and maintain his place in the Warriors squad that will travel to the Africa Cup of Nations finals in Gabon in January. Mukuruva turned on another fine show between the posts for the Warriors as they cruised to a 3-0 home win over Tanzania in an international friendly at the National Sports Stadium yesterday.The Warriors goalkeeper underlined his qualities with a stunning match winning save just 11 minutes into the game when he dived to tip over a stinging header from Tanzania striker Elias Maguri.Yet the young goalkeeper who turns 21 in January has been a subject of criticism with former Zimbabwe and Highlanders goalminder Tapuwa Kapini taking to social media to question coach Callisto Pasuwa s faith in Mukuruva.Others have also suggested that the coach must consider FC Platinum s Petros Mhari, Ariel Sibanda of Highlanders and Polokwane City s George Chigova ahead of Mukuruva.Although he declined to discuss much about what Kapini and other critics have been saying about him, Mukuruva said he had resolved to work harder and repay the coach for the faith he has shown in me .Mukuruva said the trust that Pasuwa had shown in him ever since he elevated him from the national Under-23 side and brought him in as a replacement for Washington Arubi was the driving force behind his fine performances.The Dynamos goalkeeper said he had chosen to give little attention to the debate about his position and instead focus on ensuring he remained part of the Warriors squad that will represent Zimbabwe for only the third time at the Nations Cup finals. I am not going to be sucked in the debate. I can t answer that I am very sorry. I am working extra hard so that I can improve in each and every game. I know the pressures involved and I am looking forward to be playing in Gabon in January. My aim is to go past the group stages at AFCON. I am happy that the technical bench has the trust in me. They have the faith in me and I really appreciate that. I am also very happy for the clean sheet today. It was not me alone, but we played as a team. We played according to our plan and we are looking forward to Gabon and hopefully we can play the way we played today. I am urging the Zimbabwean fans to rally behind the team in January when we go to Gabon. We need their support, said Mukuruva.Yesterday s match between the Warriors and the Taifa Stars also marked the return of Golden Arrows winger Kuda Mahachi who missed the last Nations Cup qualifier against Guinea because of injury.Mahachi suffered a fractured arm on the eve of the Warriors departure for Conakry in September and also had to miss weeks of ABSA Premiership action for Golden Arrows. I am working on my form. I am not 100 percent fit, but I tried my best and I am happy that the technical team gave me a run. We are going to Gabon to play, but deep in our hearts we know we are underdogs, but we have a point to prove. We need to remain focused. We need more friendlies and prepare for AFCON. I can t blame anyone for the injury I had because only God can do anything, Mahachi said.The former Chicken Inn man also paid tribute to the fans, who backed them at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. We are happy for the support we are getting from our fans as it really motivates us and I believe that the sky will be the limit for us, Mahachi said.