MANCHESTER. Pep Guardiola says Manchester City s 3-1 win over the best team in the world Barcelona on Tuesday night was momentous considering he has only been working at the club for four months. Two goals from Ilkay Gundogan either side of Kevin De Bruyne s fine free-kick handed City a famous win, and means they have one foot in the Champions League soccer knock-out stages.Guardiola said the game at the Etihad was not always comfortable, with Lionel Messi putting Barcelona 1-0 up early on, but that the victory over his former side was crucial. Considering the short time we ve been together, against the best team in the world, our victory today is so important. Now we have one more game to win, Guardiola said. Our (equalising) goal changed everything for our mood, the players realised the bad moment was over. Our players know that during 90 minutes you have bad phases, and we knew that time was over. It was a final for us, not for them. I think we showed many, many good things, I am so happy for the players, and they didn t deserve to go six winless. We got to know each other better tonight, and we re lucky that if we get through, we won t get Barca in the next round! Barca had won 4-0 when the sides met two weeks ago, but although Lionel Messi put them ahead, City stormed back in thrilling fashion as Gundogan scored twice either side of a Kevin De Bruyne free-kick.It ended Barcelona s run of five successive wins over City and moved Guardiola s side to within two points of Luis Enrique s Group C leaders with two games remaining. Our (first) goal here changed everything. Our players realised the bad moment was over, Guardiola said. Today is a good step. We play against a great team and we compete. Now they will realise, Wow, we won against the best team. City remain second in Group C but have closed to within two points of Barcelona, who are top with nine points from their four games. Borussia Monchengladbach are three points behind Guardiola s side following their 1-1 draw with Celtic.City lost 4-0 at the Nou Camp a fortnight ago, and were reduced to 10 men when Claudio Bravo was dismissed, but Guardiola says the performance that night was better than the opening stages at the Etihad.Guardiola thought Barcelona were unstoppable at times in the first half, saying: Our performance in Barcelona 11 v 11 was better than our first 38 minutes here. We saw the best team in the world. We tried high pressing, and we were in real trouble. Barca had the chance to score the second and the game was done. Guardiola added that City cannot achieve their goals without Sergio Aguero, following rumours the Argentine had fallen out of favour after he was left out of the defeat at the Nou Camp. Guardiola said: It was just one game that I didn t play him. I said before the game, and after the game, to us, without Sergio we cannot achieve our target. I m so happy for him because he was so happy. Sky Sports.