Callisto PasuwaEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports ReporterCALLISTO Pasuwa has challenged the home-based players to challenge their foreign-based crew for the places available in the Warriors squad for the 2017 Nations Cup finals in Gabon. The coach told reporters yesterday, as he named his squad for the friendly international against Zambia at the National Sports Stadium yesterday, that no-one was guaranteed a place in the team for Gabon. As you know, we have been using some of these players in our AFCON qualifiers and we are not saying just because these guys are playing locally, then they can t be in the AFCON squad, said Pasuwa. This is part of our preparations with these local boys so that we can see who can fit well and who doesn t. We are giving them this chance. Remember some of them played COSAFA games and CHAN games as well. This is one game also to strengthen them in order for them to get ready for the coming assignments and to see how they fare in these big games. If they play well they can be chosen to go and represent the nation in Gabon. I would like to thank the president of ZIFA for organising these friendly games. All along we were just seated. We really needed something and at the end of the day we are playing the friendlies, which is one step ahead. It s not a question of being happy (with the kind of opponents) but of playing. Remember we have been playing games without preparing. Golden Boot favourite Leonard Tsipa looks set to cap a glorious comeback season after he was given the opportunity to fight for a place in the Warriors squad for the AFCON tournament.The 34-year old striker was named among a group of 20 local-based players.Tomorrow s match will now get underway at 4pm, the third change in the last three days.The players immediately reported for camp yesterday and will have their first training session this morning.Pasuwa s selection was limited to only those players plying their trade in the domestic league since the match falls outside the FIFA calendar for such games.Tsipa, who leads the Premiership charts with 12 goals, should have anticipated the call following a remarkable season in which he has led Makepekepe from the front in their quest for the championship glory.He scored in his last match but left the field before the end of the first half after receiving a knock.CAPS United team manager, Shakespeare Chinogwenya, said Tsipa had recovered. The injury was nothing serious. It s just that he has had that ankle problem for most of the season and on Saturday he was a victim of a bad challenge, that s why he had to be pulled out early. Otherwise he is okay and I m sure he can play in the national team if given the opportunity. We are happy for him. He is such a hard worker with serious commitment to duty. It s good for him, he trains very hard, said Chinogwenya.Tsipa s closet rival in the Golden Boot race, Gift Mbweti of Hwange, and Harare City s William Manondo are also in the squad.Former Under-23 forward Pritchard Mpelele and Dynamos Rodreck Mutuma complete the strike-force.Mutuma was probably the biggest surprise as he had a subdued season with the Glamour Boys.But it appeared Pasuwa could not resist the striker s current form after he scored in his last two matches against CAPS United and Mutare City.Pasuwa also kept faith in a host of other local-based Warriors who took part in the CHAN and COSAFA tournaments earlier this year.These include the Chicken Inn trio of Lawrence Mhlanga, Tafadzwa Kutinyu and Teenage Hadebe, Hardlife Zvirekwi, Ronald Pfumbidzai, Farai Madhanhanga, Ronald Chitiyo, Talent Chawapihwa and Malvern Gaki of Triangle.Goalkeepers Donovan Bernard and Tatenda Mukuruva have kept their places in the team.The coach was forced to overlook players from FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars as the teams will be involved in the Chibuku Super Cup final on the same day. That means the likes of Partson Jaure and goalkeeper Petros Mhari may be considered for the next international friendly match against Tanzania on November 13 at the National Sports Stadium.There were also no places for hopefuls such as CAPS United s in-form midfielder Devon Chafa, Stephen Makatuka, Ariel Sibanda, Peter Muduhwa, Masimba Mambare and Brett Amidu.Nonetheless, new faces like Jameson Mukombwe of Chapungu and the Highlanders pair of Tendai Ndlovu and Honest Moyo have been called-up. We had wanted all players to be there so that we can see how best they play but it s unfortunate (we can t have players from FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum. As a coach when we have these friendlies I can see how my players are faring. Some of these players fare well at the training but when the game situation comes, it s a different story. I have been told by the president that in the coming days we might have a friendly with one of the North African countries.Pasuwa is expected to name another squad next week which incorporates the foreign-based contingent led by the likes of Costa Nhamoinesu, Marvelous Nakamba, Knowledge Musona, Evans Rusike, Cuthbert Malajila, Tendai Ndoro, Kuda Mahachi and Matthew Rusike for the next international friendly against Tanzania at the National Sports Stadium on November 13.Warriors squadGoalkeepers: Tatenda Mukuruva (Dynamos), Donovan Bernard (How Mine)Defenders: Godknows Murwira (Dynamos), Hardlife Zvirekwi (CAPS United), Ronald Pfumbidzai (CAPS United), Honest Moyo (Highlanders), Lawrence Mhlanga (Chicken Inn), Teenage Hadebe (Chicken Inn)Midfielders: Tendai Ndlovu (Highlanders), Farai Madhanhanga (Harare City), Jameson Mukombwe (Chapungu), Tafadzwa Kutinyu (Chicken Inn), Ronald Chitiyo (Harare City), Talent Chawapihwa (ZPC Kariba), Malvern Gaki (Triangle)Strikers: Pritchard Mpelele (Hwange), Gift Mbweti (Hwange), Leonard Tsipa (CAPS United), Rodreck Mutuma (Dynamos), William Manondo (Harare City)