Cool Sport&#8212; There are some people from my neighbourhood that question why I joined body building instead of netball or basketball and think something is wrong with me. I don t mind their negative perceptions because it s my passion and there are a lot of other girls who are in this sport. TONYA Greenland (14) is arguably the youngest female body builder in Bulawayo and has set her sights on winning the Ms Novice Zimbabwe title.It has only been three months since she started body building, but she already has set a high target for herself.Tonya was inspired to take up the sport by her aunt and renowned female body builder Shantel Greenland, who is also her trainer at Body Works Gym. I realised that I cannot make it alone and one makes it to the top through learning from the best. I decided to train with Shantel because she is a champion and is the reigning Ms Zimbabwe. She gives me tips for training and to avoid eating food with too much fat, said Tonya.She is determined and exudes a fighting spirit despite her young age. She said her schoolmates do not have qualms about her new found passion. Although body building has gained acceptance as a sport, some still view it negatively. There are some people from my neighbourhood that question why I joined body building instead of netball or basketball and think something is wrong with me. I don t mind their negative perceptions because it s my passion and there are a lot of other girls who are in this sport, Tonya said.Veteran trainer Simon Gama also assists in her training and believes Tonya will become a household name in body building soon. She has started dieting and trains hard and her body is shaping up well. If she maintains that I believe she will bag titles; starting with the Ms Novice to Ms Zimbabwe, said Gama, who boasts a number of accolades under his belt.Tonya is a Form 2 pupil at Speciss College and aspires to be a medical doctor. I have a strong interest in science subjects, which I m doing well in, she said.She is a principled athlete, who religiously follows a set timetable. I go to school from 8-1pm. I take a break and go to the gym at 3pm. My parents are also supportive and bought me a training kit. They also cater for all my training expenses, she said. The Chronicle.