Tonderai NdirayaTedious Manyepo Sports ReporterNGEZI Platinum coach Tonderai Ndiraya is praying that the duo of striker Kelvin Bulaji and midfielder Walter Mukanga recover in time for his team s historic Chibuku Super Cup final against FC Platinum at Baobab on Saturday. The Premiership rookies have already been dealt a huge blow following the suspension of defender Byron Madzokere after he picked two yellow cards in the earlier rounds of the tournament.Ngezi have defied the odds by battling all the way to the final of the biggest knock-out tournament on the land and they have already made it clear that they will be out to win the trophy on Saturday which will give them the right to represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup next year.But, Ndiraya, a mid-season appointment to the Ngezi Platinum s coaching helm is sweating over the fitness of his core players. We are preparing normally for the match against FC Platinum which is arguably the biggest fixture Ngezi Platinum has been involved in this season. It has been a remarkable season for the team and everyone is excited by where we are at the moment. We are cherishing the moment and we will be out to make history on Saturday. However I want to say that we will be missing Madzokere (Byron) who is suspended after picking up two yellow cards in the tournament. I am also very much worried by the injuries to Kelvin (Bulaji) and Walter (Mukanga). They have some knocks and I just hope that they will recover in time for the match since their contributions will be key on the day, Ndiraya said.Ndiraya will be presiding in a cup final for the first time as a substantive coach and the youthful gaffer has declared that he wants to spice the milestone with a win over the Norman Mapeza s men. This is my first time to be in a cup final as a substantive coach. It s historical and I have to make it even more memorable by lifting the cup. I respect our opponents because they are in red-hot form but we will fight for each ball and possibly win the trophy, said Ndiraya.Ndiraya oversaw Dynamos being defeated 1-2 by Harare City at the National Sports Stadium in final of the same competition last year but, he was the Glamour Boys interim mentor.FC Platinum will be looking at winning the cup for the second time following their success over Harare City at Mandava in 2014.Pure Platinum Play could also win the double if they manage to lift the trophy on Saturday and reclaim top post in the league race where they are still firmly in contention along with leaders CAPS United and third-placed Highlanders.On their way to the final FC Platinum accounted for Chapungu in the first round, eliminated Triangle in the quarter-finals before sending holders Harare City tumbling out at the semi-final stage two weeks ago.Ngezi Platinum on their part dismissed Hwange at the first hurdle and beat Tsholotsho in the second round.They however brewed the biggest shock of the tournament when they upstaged giants Highlanders in the semi- final.Should they lose the final and FC Platinum claim the cup and the championship title and opt to play in the Champions League, Ngezi could yet still represent the country in the Confederation Cup.But for now both sides have fixed their attention on Saturday s final at Baobab.