Mr ZakariyaElita Chikwati Agriculture Reporter&#8212;Farming activities have intensified across the country with farmers contracted under Command Agriculture worried over the slow distribution of pre-emergence herbicides. Planting has intensified while most smallholder farmers are finalising land preparations.Zimbabwe Farmers Union director Mr Paul Zakariya yesterday said, activity had picked up in most farming areas.He said most smallholder farmers waited for the rains to start land preparations. It is unfortunate that smallholder farmers, who are the major food producers are facing challenges with funding.Smallholder farmers used to produce more than 80 percent of the grain for the Strategic Grain Reserve. The sector is so important that it should be assisted with funding. The farmers face challenges and cannot procure inputs timely. There is little support for the sector. Long back, there used to be the Agricultural Finance Corporation where smallholder farmers could access credit, he said.He said while Government s intervention through the Presidential Inputs Scheme was noble, it was only meant for household food security. It is high time that the smallholder farming sector is commercialised. They should have access to funding. Records and history have shown evidence of payment. They borrow as groups and can police each other, he said.Mr Zakariya said cotton farmers were taken care of by Government through the Presidential Inputs Scheme and there were no challenges. We urge the authorities to speed up the distribution of inputs so that farmers can catch up with time. As for Command Agriculture, some farmers are complaining of the unavailability of pre-emergence herbicides. These should be made available to farmers timely. Farmers can however still plant and use post emergence herbicides that are selective and do not burn crops, he said.Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers Union president Mr Wonder Chabikwa said, some farmers had dry planted, while others started planting after the recent rains. The season has finally kicked off. There are rains throughout the country and farmers are intensifying operations. Seed is available in retail outlets but we have received reports of some shortages of compound fertilisers in some areas. Farmers have come out of a bad season and do not have money to buy inputs. Farmers under Command Agriculture have received seed, fuel and compound fertilisers, but some are complaining of herbicides shortages. Hopefully the herbicides will be availed timely so farmers will not have challenges with weeds. Some farmers are buying pre-emergence herbicides on their own so they do not delay planting, he said.Normal to above normal rains are expected this season and experts said the rains are good for agriculture.