Freeman Razemba Crime ReporterOver 7 600 cattle have been stolen countrywide, while police have arrested 561 stock thieves. According to police, most of the suspects have appeared in court and some were convicted and sentenced to periods ranging between nine and 36 years. The suspects were arrested between January and September this year.Police Anti-Stock Theft National Co-ordinator Senior Assistant Commissioner Erasmus Makodza on Monday said of the 7 656 cattle stolen, 2 344 had been recovered.He said during the same period last year, 6 696 cattle were stolen with police recovering 2 086 and arresting 522 suspects. The major reason contributing to the increase in stocktheft cases is that most of the farmers are not herding and penning their cattle on a daily basis. Farmers are allowing their animals to free graze into distant areas in search of pastures because there are no pastures in their villages due to drought experienced last season. Cattle are accessing drinking water at distant areas and farmers opt to leave them at the source of water where they graze and drink but with no protection from rustlers. Cattle rustlers take advantage of free grazing animals to steal, Snr Asst Comm Makodza.He also blamed some unemployed youths who were in the habit of stealing cattle and selling the meat to unregistered food outlets and butcheries. Over 95 percent of cattle stolen are those without brand marks or any other identification marks. The problem of animal identification is another area aiding criminals. Serious efforts are, however, being done to address this weakness, Snr Asst Comm Makodza said.He said the police were educating farmers to desist from the traditional practice of allowing animals to roam free without herdsmen.He urged farmers to take turns to look after their cattle when grazing and to ensure that they were secured during the night. Communities are also being urged to form community village anti-stock theft committees solely for the protection of their animals. There is need to join hands with the police to complement their efforts to protect livestock from theft, Snr Asst Comm Makodza said.He said the unit had also come up with an initiative for players in the meat industry to assist farmers in safeguarding their animals.He said the Business Against Anti-Stocktheft Forum was assisting farmers to get branding certificates as well as taking measures against buying stolen cattle and meat. The unit is now fully staffed and, as such, there will be more deployments into communities and farming areas targeting all wanted persons for stocktheft and dealing with any reports of stock- theft, Snr Asst Comm Makodza.Meanwhile, police have arrested two suspected armed robbers who were raiding houses in Kadoma, stealing various household goods during the night.Following the arrest of the two, police recovered a revolver and five spent cartridges and one live round of ammunition.National police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi confirmed the arrest. The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to confirm the arrest of two accused person for unlawful entry and theft, which occurred in June 2016 in Kadoma, he said.He said one of the complainants, a 75-year-old man left his house unattended going to a meeting and during his absence, criminals forced open the door.They stole an Hp Laptop, an electronic blood pressure testing machine and a 32 Rubby Revolver, which had three rounds of ammunition. Police carried out some investigations and managed to arrest two male adults and recovered the 32 Rubby Revolver with five spent cartridges and one live round lodged in the chamber along a railway line in Lochinvar, Harare, Chief Supt Nyathi said.The two are still assisting police with some investigations.Chief Supt Nyathi urged members of the public to ensure that guns were always secured in the recommended cabinets and must ensure maximum security measures when leaving their premises. Investigations are still in progress in an endeavour to recover some of the stolen property and unearth other crimes that might have been committed by the accused persons, he said.Last week, police warned the public to be wary of a gang of criminals targeting business premises and homes in search of money.The criminals are reportedly moving around the city and police urged the public to avoid keeping large amounts of money at home or business premises.