Michelle ObamaCHARLESTON. &#8211; A West Virginia mayor and local executive are facing mounting pressure to resign over a racist post about Michelle Obama (pictured right). It will be refreshing to have a classy, beautiful, dignified First Lady in the White House. I m tired of seeing a Ape in heels, wrote Clay County Development Corporation director Pamela Ramsey Taylor shortly after Donald Trump was elected as president.Clay Mayor Beverly Whaling responded: Just made my day Pam. The post was deleted but not before it was shared hundreds of times on social media. Taylor has also suspended her Facebook account.The two women have since apologised for their remarks. My comment was not intended to be racist at all, Whaling said in a statement to The Washington Post. I was referring to my day being made for change in the White House! I am truly sorry for any hard feeling this may have caused! Those who know me know that I m not of any way racist! Again, I would like to apologise for this getting out of hand! Pamela Ramsey Taylor also said sorry on her Facebook account, which she has set to private.Earlier, their comments sparked a huge furore in the small county with many branding the post racist and vile and demanding that both officials stand down.A petition calling for Whaling and Taylor to be fired from their positions has already reached more than 14 000 signatures.Tinna-Jamie Conner, addressing the two officials, said in a Facebook post: Here s a news flash for you deplorable classless beings. OUR First Lady, Michelle Obama personifies and exudes beauty, grace, class, intelligence, humility, strength, patience, passion and HOPE. Neither of you idiots could hold a candle to her on your hottest day. Say what you will, but your hate and racism is ugly. Dianne Degen Joyce added that Taylor s comments was not only vile but incorrect.Others agreed: That goes without saying. Michelle Obama is the epitome of class, grace and style, Celeste DuMas Reinhard said.Some Facebook users pointed out that president-elect Trump s wife Melania had previously stripped off for modelling jobs, while Michelle Obama had been involved in politics.Others simply demanded Taylor and Whaling be fired.Robin Brown said: Women can and SHOULD make them lose those jobs. They should be publicly hum- iliated. Both women involved have apologised publicly on Facebook.Whaling issued a statement to Eyewitness News about the in- cident. I would like to apologise for any unintentional harm caused by my comment, Whaling s statement said.The controversy was due to be discussed at a pre-planned town council meeting on Tuesday. - Daily Mail.