Moses MuchenjeTedious Manyepo Sports Reporter&#8212;RETURNING CAPS United skipper Moses Muchenje has warned his teammates to keep their feet on the ground if they are to prevail in their title-deciding tie against Chapungu at Ascot this Saturday. Muchenje missed the log leaders 1-0 win over Ngezi Platinum Stars last Sunday at the National Sports Stadium as he was serving a PSL suspension for accumulating three yellow cards.CAPS United will win the title with a victory over Chapungu regardless of what happens in the other match pitting their title rivals FC Platinum against Tsholotsho.Makepekepe lead the standings with 60 points, two ahead of FC Platinum.Muchenje believes the game against Chapungu will be one of the toughest his team have played this season. I am happy to be back in the fold. It was agonising not playing a part in Sunday s match against Ngezi Platinum, he said. But I am very happy my teammates fought for us and I should commend them for the spirit which they showed. It is now down to the final hurdle against Chapungu. We have to win the match but we have to carry the right mentality into the game. The game demands a lot of composure and some bit of nerve of steel. Makepekepe might be buoyed by the fact they mauled the airmen 3-0 in their season opener at the National Sports Stadium.But Muchenje doesn t want to dwell much on the past. We might have beaten them in our first meeting but a lot has happened between then and now, said the skipper. We are occupying a pressure position and looking good enough to win the championship but everything can turn upside down if we approach the match with a negative mind. We have to respect Chapungu as they have been given such respect by all the teams who visit their fortress. We will be playing away from home in a match we desperately need to pick maximum points. Muchenje s fears are largely justifiable as Makepekepe, despite not losing a single league game at home this season, were defeated the last time they played Chapungu at Ascot.CAPS United are chasing a first league title in 11 years.While they will welcome their influential captain, Makepekepe will be without injury-plagued midfielder Tafadzwa Rusike, who was injured in the Ngezi Platinum game.While an outright win for CAPS United is all they need, the Green Machine can still win the title even if they draw or lose as long as FC Platinum do not beat Tsholotsho.