Suluman ChimbetuArts Editor &#8212; A bachelor s party for dendera star Suluman Chimbetu will be held at Time and Jazz Caf tonight ahead of the musician s wedding set for Zimbali Gardens in Greendale on December 3. Sulu will tie the knot with Linda Samuriwo, his wife of seven years, and fellow celebrities and fans will tonight converge at the bachelor s party to congratulate the artiste. The wedding will coincide with the release of Sulu s new album titled Jamboree .Although bachelor s parties are traditionally held for would-be grooms graduating from bachelorhood, Sulu said he saw it fit to celebrate with his friends and fans before the wedding.His publicist Joe Local Nyamungoma said the event is a special occasion in Sulu s life and career. We are happy to announce this party. It is open to everyone and it will be done differently because Sulu is no longer a bachelor, said Nyamungoma. Traditionally, bachelor s parties are attended by men, but this is an occasion for all fans and celebrities. Female fans are welcome to celebrate with Sulu. It is just a celebratory event that will be done a week before the wedding. The celebrations will continue in various forms until the wedding day. The event will involve a performance by Sulu and his band while other musicians are also expected to bring their celebratory songs to the stage. Organiser of the event Josh Hozheri said they planned the party in a way that would ensure a special way of starting celebrations ahead of the wedding. We are inviting Sulu s fans to come and celebrate with him. When he told me that he wanted to wed this year I thought he was joking, but everything has now been set for the wedding and we have come up with this bachelor s party to give fans a chance to congratulate him, said Hozheri. We have invited businessmen Philip Chiyangwa and Chamu Chiwanza to grace the event as special guests. Chiyangwa will be the guest of honour. Hozheri said he decided to organise a bachelor s party for Sulu since they have worked together for a long time.The celebrations continue at Sulu s usual shows this weekend. Tomorrow he performs at Truck Inn in Southerton while on Saturday he goes to New Ambassador hotel. At both shows he will share the stage with Hope Masike.Sulu s wedding will be attended by various musicians with Jah Prayzah as his best man. The development is likely to put to rest speculation that there is bad blood between Jah Prayzah and Sulu.An after-party of the wedding will be held at Belgravia Sports Club where Sulu, Jah Prayzah, Masike, Seh Calaz and Tryson Chimbetu will perform. The album Jamboree will also be launched at the after-party.