TemplemanLifestyle Reporter It will be 36 hours of non-stop merrymaking beginning this afternoon at a lakeside party to be held at Spillway Pub and Restaurant. About 40 disc jockeys will be on rotation on turntables at the event that has been dubbed Lakeside Summer Festival. The event will be spiced by a pool party and braai party that are expected to keep people entertained during the night while in the afternoon there will be activities like horse-riding and fun on the jumping castle for children.It seems such events are gaining popularity as people have thronged recent similar outings in their numbers. The recently held-braai festivals in Harare and at another venue near the lake attracted thousands of merrymakers.The new craze has stolen steam from music shows that are struggling to attract followers. Organisers of the outdoor parties have been attracting crowds by setting affordable prices for meat and beverages.Spillway proprietors said they will be selling beverages at wholesale prices while meat will be available at cheap rates courtesy of Mutangaz Meats. They said there will also give free braai packs to merrymakers as they make their way into the venue for an entrance fee of $5 per head.The event is expected to begin at 10am today and run until 10pm tomorrow and some parts of the festival will be broadcast live on Star FM. The Star FM duo of Templeman and Garry B will lead a contigent of DJs that include Storm, L-Roy, TK Beats, Rax and Candyman.Other selectors like Selector Base, Blaze, Fujee, Killa Kelly, Phatman, Young Fresh and Sadiq will also unleash their selections will also be on the turntables. Organisers said they will not break as they work to set the pace with a two-day Summerfest. It will be a big event. We have invited 36 DJs and we are looking at 36 hours of music. We will also have a number of activities to keep patrons entertained and for just $5 entrance fee, people will enjoy a lot, said Spillway manager Dzikama Rufu. Parts of the event will be broadcast live on Star FM and we cherish the partnership that will take our festival to the people beyond the venue. We have also partnered with Mutangaz for the provision of loads of meat that will be sold at cheap prices. 