Special CorrespondentTurkey s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called for the reform of the International Monetary Fund and challenged developing nations to be wary of any assistance that come with conditions. He was speaking at the Turkey-Africa Economic and Business Forum (TABEF 2016) which is currently being in the capital, Instanbul, under the theme Financing African Investment Projects: Infrastructure, Transportation and Energy .The Forum jointly organized by the Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEIK) and Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Turkey, African Union (AU), and Turkish Exporters Assembly (TIM) has attracted over 2000 delegates.Zimbabwean business is being represented by the National Business Council of Zimbabwe and its leader founding president Dr Keith Guzah, businessman Langton Mabhanga, among others.In his welcome remarks to high ranking government leaders that included Chadian President, decision makers, business organisations and other participants from all over from Africa, President Erdogan took a swipe at self serving financial institutions such as the IMF and first world nations that took advantage of developing nations to push their agendas in exchange for financial support. The upward manipulation of lending interest rates under the guise of raising capital for employment creation by the IMF should not be allowed to sail unchallenged. The so called structural adjustment programs that are a must before any financial aid is granted are meant to subject African countries into puppetry and stifle development. Let us resist dictation which is insensitive to our social, economic, political and cultural diversities. For close to a century, Africa had to resort to military and other forms of resistance to break the shackles of colonisation.Africa and its development partners now need collective resistance to a new phenomena that seeks to determine the political direction to be taken by our sovereign nations. They want to dictate to our industries and key economic sectors such as mining, agriculture and tourism and inculcate in us a culture of dependence. To that end, let us refuse to be second class citizens of our own countries . . . let us never compromise our gains . . . he said. No to countries who want to be the only manufacturers while others are reduced to being mere off takers. They are filthy with causing the devastating atrocities and terrorism . . . chronic diseases under the guise of ensuring democracy. Such dishonest and insincere vices are inconsistent and unacceptable double standards President Erdogan said.He emphasised that the relationship between Turkey and its African allies was based on mutual love and trust for one another, building blocks to grow together and maintaining cordial and harmonious relations.As Turkey grows, so does Africa.