Talent MandazaGrace Chingoma in YAOUNDE, Cameroon MIGHTY Warriors skipper Talent Mandaza believes they were their own worst enemies when they failed to convert the chances that came their way, resulting in their early elimination from the ongoing Africa Women Cup of Nations soccer tournament. The team bowed out in the group stages of the tournament after defeats to Egypt (1-0), Cameroon (2-0) and a goalless draw against South Africa in Group A.The Zimbabwe national women s soccer team could not even score a goal past any of their opponents while conceding three. This turned to haunt the team, which was expected to at least win a match and a draw, to hope for a passage to the last four.New Mighty Warriors skipper Mandaza is clearly disappointed as the team heads back home. Obviously, we are disappointed and heartbroken with the (early) elimination from the competition. Especially, the issue of not scoring even a goal, we are not happy about it and it cost us a chance to go far in this tournament, said Mandaza. The Black Rhinos Queens player added that they were unlucky too. But we really tried our level best, we gave it our all. We could not convert the chances we had into goals because we created many in all the three games. I guess we were unlucky too, she said.However, the veteran midfielder says they are not burying their heads in the sand. The future is bright. Just by participating at these major tournaments, we will continue to gain more experience which we can use in the next qualifiers as well as the Cosafa Cup. Zimbabwe are expected to host the women s Cosafa Championship next year. The last time the regional tournament was staged was in 2011 in Harare with the hosts lifting the trophy.The core of the team here were part of that team which won the Cup before they went on to make history and qualify for the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, as well as the Nations Cup.But the 29-year-old Mandaza doesn t believe that most of the players are over the hill. I think senior players are needed for guidance and experience. It is just that in our country if a person reaches 27 she will be regarded as old, but you can see in other countries there are players who are 34-year-olds still commanding the first team jersey. Take a look at the defence of South Africa, they have three senior players from captain van Wyk, for example then Cameroon had half of the team older than 28. So if the senior players can deliver they are needed to guide the youth with their experience because one thing I learnt in football experience is needed in these tournaments, she said.Mandaza, former skipper Felistas Muzongondi, Ruvimbo Mutyavaviri and Marjoury Nyaumwe are some of the players approaching 30 or have turned 30 while talented midfielder Mavis Chirandu, Nokubhosi Ncube, Maud Mafusire and Berita Kabwe are some of the players who still have age on their side.