Honourable Vice President, Comrade Emmerson Mnangagwa,Honourable Vice President, Comrade Phelekezela Mphoko, Honourable Minister of Transport and Infrastructural Development, Dr Joram GumboHonourable Ministers here present,Honourable Minister of State for Provincial Affairs for Matabeleland North Province, Comrade Jacob MudendaThe President of the Senate , Mai Edna Madzongwe,Honourable Members of Parliament here present,His Worship the Mayor of Victoria Falls, Mr Sifiso Mpofu,President of the Council of Chiefs, Chief Fortunate Charumbira,Senior Government Officials,Service Chiefs here present, Ladies and Gentlemen,Comrades and FriendsIt is my singular honour and privilege to officiate at the commissioning of yet another Zim-Asset project. The upgrading of the Victoria Falls International Airport is indeed a milestone achievement, as Zimbabwe forges ahead with the transformation of its air transport, itself a key enabler for economic growth and development.Ladies and Gentlemen,After the total transformation and facelift, the upgraded Victoria Falls International Airport has the capacity to now handle 1 500 000 passengers per year, up from the previous 500 000. The new runway can now accommodate wide bodied aircraft, such as the Airbus A340, Boeing 777 and Boeing 787. This development indeed signifies exciting times ahead for our aviation and tourism sectors. The upgrading of the International Airport paves way for Victoria Falls Town to become a tourist hub for Zimbabwe, Sadc and the rest of the continent.Comrades and Friends,In 2012, The People s Republic of China provided us with US$150 million concessionary loan facility, through the China-Exim Bank. This capital injection enabled the airport upgrading project to take off in April 2013. The first stage was the construction of a new four-kilometre runway, which was followed by an international terminal building, fire station, control tower and installation of state-of-the-art specialist aviation equipment and the upgrading of the old airport into a domestic terminal building.Ladies and Gentleman,After the completion of this project, visitors and tourists from Europe, Asia, the Middle East, among others, fly directly to Victoria Falls. They now can experience one of the Seven Wonders of the World. There are well advanced plans for several airlines to fly directly to Victoria Falls. I, therefore, urge the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructural Development and the Civil Aviation Authority of Zimbabwe and the Ministry of Tourism to work closely together, in an endeavour to get full economic benefit of the project.It goes without saying that one of the immediate and key beneficiaries of the upgraded Victoria Falls Airport is tourism. The Ministry of Tourism has been provided with a platform to vigorously market its products. Tourism inflows are bound to increase, as the two ministries should continue to complement each other.Ladies and Gentleman,Whenever we undertake projects we should insist that they be of high quality, and that they get completed within a specified timeframe. China Jiangsu International, the Chinese contractor engaged on this project, met our requirements. We commend them for the professional and efficient way they worked on this project and we will not hesitate to engage them again, should other projects arise.My Government recognises that air transport is pivotal to the economic growth of our country. Air transport, inas-much as it facilitates trade and tourism, also fosters regional integration now that Victoria Falls Airport is complete, I urge the ministry to move to achieving our aim of making Zimbabwe the regional hub of Southern Africa. Harare International Airport, Kariba and Buffalo Range airports eagerly await similar infrastructural developments.Ladies and Gentlemen,Government is committed to enhance the safety and security of aviation in Zimbabwe. To this end, we are in the process of restructuring the Civil Aviation Authority, as we aim to separate regulatory and airports management functions, in line with international best practices. This will not only enhance safety and security compliance, but will also provide scope for private sector participation in airport operations in Zim- babwe.I wish to congratulate the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructural Development who, with the close cooperation of CAAZ and the local community, worked for the successful completion of this project. Well done! Makorokoto!Ladies and Gentlemen,It is my honour and privilege to declare the Victoria Falls International Airport officially opened.I thank you.