LONDON. Jack Wilshere hopes to get the chance to take out his frustrations on Scotland when England take on their old rivals tomorrow night at Wembley. The Arsenal midfielder, who is spending the season on loan at Bournemouth, is back in England s plans after a fine start to his stay on the south coast.Interim boss Gareth Southgate said, after confirming Wilshere as part of his squad on Sunday, the 24-year-old was benefiting from the chance to get a regular game after a series of injuries caused him to drop down the pecking order at the Emirates.And Wilshere now hopes his return to full fitness will mean an England recall for their fourth World Cup Qualifier after he missed Sam Allardyce s sole game in charge and the first two under Southgate s care. A lot has changed since I was last in the squad, I m in a good place, I m happy and looking forward to it, said Wilshere. I m still working hard and trying to improve myself and play as many games as possible at Bournemouth. I believe in myself and my own ability. If I m playing games and I m fit then I ve got the confidence that I can make a difference in the England team. Wilshere admits he still feels frustration from last summer s tournament, which saw England exit against Iceland in the last-16 and the end of Roy Hodgson s time in charge.When asked if that game lingered in his memory, he said: A little bit but a lot has changed since then. I think the one feeling I get is frustration, because I felt that even up to that game in the tournament we were doing alright. We played well in the first few games. Okay we dropped off a little bit in the Slovakia game. But I felt we were doing alright and had enough to beat Iceland so it was just frustration. But the team have definitely moved on. There s a new manager and a lot s changed since then and we re just looking forward now. Southgate was keen to accentuate the history of England and Scotland games as part of his preparation, going as far as sorting out a video presentation of old matches for the squad to watch.And Wilshere says that will make tomorrow night extra special for him and the rest of the squad as they look for another three Group F points.He added: Of course I ve got memories of (Paul) Gascoigne s goal, the one that stands out for me, obviously I ve played in one now and it was quite a special night I think. We played really well, got a great result and I think personally as well I played quite well and looking back it was a special atmosphere. We ve got to make that atmosphere at Wembley as well because it s a big game and the fans are normally great at Wembley and I m sure they re going to be up for this one because in the group it s the biggest game. I think as players, there s a lot of players in the squad that have played in it on more than one occasion and I think we understand it. The manager showed us a video yesterday and it showed us past our game, back to Gascoigne and that era and it was nice.We know what it means as players, you know, it s a massive game for us. I played there at Celtic Park and we played at Wembley and on both occasions, we know their players really well from the Premier League, it s almost going to be like a Premier League game. Sky Sports.