Usain BoltLONDON. Usain Bolt joked about getting a call-up from Jose Mourinho on the day he was in London to watch the premiere of his own film. The nine-time Olympic gold medallist will retire after next summer s World Championships in London and has already got his eye on a possible career change by agreeing to train with Borussia Dortmund. Jamaica s running legend was in good spirits on Monday night as his closest friends, parents and sports stars paraded down the red carpet ahead of the world premiere of the movie I Am Bolt at the Leicester Square Odeon.On his football ambitions, Bolt said: It s something I ve always wondered about to see if I was any good at it. At the end of next season I will go there and do some training to see if it could be worthy. Despite his commitment with the German side after hanging up his spikes, the 30-year-old Jamaican, a self-confessed Manchester United fan, is also hoping for a job at Old Trafford.Asked whether he had been approached by Manchester United boss Mourinho, Bolt said: Hopefully &#8211; not yet. Hopefully he ll call me and see what s going on. I m really excited about that! Speaking about his plans to retire from the track at next year s World Championships in London next year, he added: It s big. London is a place where I get a lot of love. It s the right place for me to retire. I ve also talked to IAAF president (Seb Coe) and had discussions about what I could do in the sport to continue. I don t want to just walk away. I told him I d love to be a part of this and promoting the sport in whatever way possible. I Am Bolt follows the peaks and the pits of the athlete s career, from his first race up to his triple triple Rio de Janeiro victory.Fans will also get a deeper look into the the setbacks behind Bolt s unrivalled success. Directors Benjamin Turner and Gabe Turner both relished working with him. It was great fun, said Benjamin Turner. He was amazing to hang out with &#8211; we got to do some amazing things. Gabe Turner added: We were told very early that if we tried to work with him as a work colleague, it s not going to fly. It was one of those jobs where we d say to our wives we re going to Jamaica to hang out for a couple of weeks . It was joyous. 