Minister MandiwanziraAt least 80 percent of Zimbabweans should have access to broadband internet by the year 2020, a cabinet minister has said. Internet access is the process that enables individuals and organisations to connect to the Internet using computer terminals, computers, mobile devices, sometimes via computer networks. Once connected to the Internet, users can access Internet services, such as email and the World Wide Web. Internet service providers (ISPs) offer Internet access through various technologies that offer a wide range of data signalling rates (speeds). Consumer use of the Internet first became popular through dial-up Internet access in the 1990s. By the first decade of the 21st century, many consumers in developed nations used faster, broadband Internet access technologies.Of the more than 300 million internet users in Africa, Zimbabwe is contributing 2 percent while Nigeria with a population of more than 100 million has the highest of 28 percent.Speaking at the launch of the website for the Zimbabwe Diabetes Association (ZDA) in the capital, Information Communication and Technology and Courier Services Minister Supa Mandiwanzira said mobile penetration in Zimbabwe stood at 105 percent. We have not done bad as a country in terms of mobile penetration. The majority of Zimbabweans now have access to the internet through their mobile phones, he said. We are sitting at more than 105 percent mobile penetration which means we have more phones than we have people in our country, he said. Active penetration, sim cards or phones that are actually being used on a daily basis are sitting at 95 percent. That means the majority of Zimbabweans have access to mobile phones and telecommunication, he said.Minister Mandiwanzira urged the ZDA to utilise Community Information Centres that the Government set up in provinces across the country to take information to the communities about diabetes.It is estimated that about 10 percent of the population in Zimbabwe lives with diabetes with half the number not aware of it. - New Ziana.