Business ReporterTHE review and updating of the engineering feasibility studies for the Batoka Hydroelectric project is now expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2017, the Zambezi River Authority has said. The ZRA a bi-national organisation mandated to operate monitor, and maintain the Kariba Complex as well as exploit the full potential of the Zambezi River is implementing the Batoka Hydroelectric project. Earlier indications had been for the review and updating of the engineering feasibility studies to be completed by the end of this year.Upon completion targeted for 2024, the Batoka Hydroelectric project is expected to generate 2 400MW hydro power project, to be equally shared between Zimbabwe and Zambia. However, first generation is earmarked for 2019. In written responses on the developments at the project, ZRA public relations and communications manager Elizabeth Karonga said the final documents are now expected in the first quarter of 2017. The review and updating of the engineering feasibility studies, being undertaken by Studio Pietrangeli Ing, of Italy is expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2017. These studies involve the review and updating of the 1993 engineering feasibility studies of the proposed scheme, said Ms Karonga.Also, the environmental and social impact assessment studies are expected at the same time as the review. The environmental and social impact assessment studies being conducted by the Environmental Resources Management (Pty) Ltd, of South Africa are also expected to be completed at the same time with the engineering feasibility studies in the first quarter of 2017. This report will assist in the development of strategies to mitigate any identified negative impacts and enhance the identified positive impacts, she said.Financing mechanisms being considered by the two governments for the Batoka Hydroelectric project include loans, Build Own Operate Transfer, grants and equity capital, among others.Private Public Partnerships are also under consideration as the two governments want to have private capital on board. Already, ZRA has appointed transaction, financial and legal advisory services providers have been appointed as the authority readies to approach the market for finance.