Paul Mundandi in ZVISHAVANE and Langton Nyakwenda in HARAREGOALKEEPER Petros Mhari is hoping lifting the Chibuku Super Cup this afternoon will boost his profile amid an explosive debate that he has done enough to earn a place in the Warriors squad. Mhari was not considered for the national team s international friendly against Zambia at the National Sports Stadium because of his commitments with FC Platinum in the country s flagship football knock-out tournament.FC Platinum will take on Ngezi Platinum in an all-platinum miners showdown at Baobab with the match starting at 2pm.The match is live on SuperSport.The historic match marks the first time that the final of the country s biggest knock-out football tournament has been held in Mhondoro. We are going to Baobab with one mission, we want a positive result and we want to bring the Cup to Zvishavane, said Mhari, who is the FC Platinum captain.FC Platinum won the tournament when it was relaunched in 2014 and won the ticket to represent Zimbabwe in the CAF Confederation Cup.They arrive in Mhondoro with a chance to win a League and Cup Double.Mhari has been one of the stand-out players in the domestic Premiership this season with his fans saying he deserves a chance to be considered for national team duty.Former Warriors goalkeeper, Tapuwa Kapini, also suggested that Mhari should be given a chance to prove himself.And, should he lead his club to victory this afternoon, with another good show, Mhari would have boosted his cause although the keeper doesn t want to be entangled in that debate.FC Platinum will miss the services of Tarisai Rukanda, who has an ankle injury and the duo of Winston Mhango and Charles Sibanda who are still recovering after they were involved in an accident recently.But in Walter Musona, Marshall Mudehwe, Rodwell Chinyengetere, Tatenda Dzumbunu and Gerald Takwara, they have the arsenal to compete.However, they face a side revived by former Dynamos coach Tonderai Ndiraya and which their fans will be supporting, in two weeks, hoping they can stop CAPS United in the championship race to help their cause.Ndiraya spent years on apprentice under record-breaking gaffer Callisto Pasuwa, guided DeMbare to the Chibuku Super Cup final and a second place finish in the 2015 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League race.He was chucked out of the system after the DeMbare hierarchy fell in love with Portuguese coach Paolo Jorge Silva.He disappeared from the public domain until July when a chance to return to the limelight presented itself in the form of Ngezi Platinum.Poor results under Clifton Kadurira forced the Ngezi Platinum executive to wield the axe.An eight-match unbeaten run ensued and Ngezi Platinum rose from the relegation zone into genuine top eight contenders.And Ndiraya was duly named Coach of the Month for July. From the onset we said we wanted to take it step by step and reach the Promised Land, we have gone past another stage and we now look forward to our next opponent, Ndiraya said after his team had thumped Tsholotsho 4-1 at the Baobab to reach the Chibuku Super Cup semi-final.The fairytale continued and Highlanders soon became the next victims.Bosso were beaten 1-0 in their backyard and an historic Chibuku Super Cup final appearance, in only their debut top-flight season, was sealed by Ndiraya.Kelvin Bulaji and Walter Mukanga, the players DeMbare deemed excess baggage, during mid-season have formed the backbone of this amazing Ngezi side.It s a historic day for the Mhondoro community and Ndiraya says the people cannot wait.The clash kicks off at 2pm and is live on SuperSport 9.SportsZone Zimbabwe will give a blow-by-blow live text commentary of the platinum final. We are ready for the battle, it is a very important Cup not only for me as a coach, but for the people of Mhondoro who have waited long for this day. It means so much to the people, players and the organisation I work for, said Ndiraya. It s no mean achievement to reach a Cup final in your debut season. The boys are ready and I am sure they will deliver. From long-term injury casualties Chris Mverechena, Knowledge Machona and Tichaona Mabvura, Ngezi Platinum have all the players itching to step onto the Baobab turf.Versatile defender Byron Madzokere is suspended for the final. If that happens we will be assured to go and play in Africa and the dream must leave on, said Ndiraya who was beaming with confidence yesterday.Ngezi Platinum chairman Jeremiah Gasitene told The Saturday Herald the small mining community was ready to host their first big match. In terms of preparations to host this match, everything has gone on very well. We are looking forward to a great event. A meeting was held recently with stakeholders who included PSL and the sponsors where everything was thrashed out in terms of expectation. The morale here is high. The community is excited. For us it s a big achievement because we are newcomers to the league and we are playing in our first final in the Premiership. I cannot dwell much on the technical issues because it s not my area. But I believe the coaches are doing whatever is necessary to keep the players focused, said Gasitene.