Morgan TsvangiraiZvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter&#8212;-MDC-T leader, Mr Morgan Tsvangirai has been caught in another storm for allegedly inciting political violence as a way of unseating the Zanu-PF Government as frustration continues to deepen in the opposition leader. Mr Tsvangirai has suffered three successive electoral defeats at the hands of Zanu-PF leader, President Mugabe in 2002, 2008 and 2013.In an interview with South African newspaper, The Daily Maverick, Mr Tsvangirai urged his supporters to rise as the only option available for them to combat the economic challenges facing the country. There s no way we can go beyond where we have gone, we are at rock bottom. The only option available to us is to rise. That s my optimistic assessment. But, of course, we have to do so in the right manner. And we can do it in a short period of time, Mr Tsvangirai was quoted as saying.He said there was need to take advantage of the isolation that Zimbabwe had been subjected to, to fight the Government and revel on the illegal sanctions against Harare. The endgame, to me, is nearer than it has ever been, Mr Tsvangirai was quoted as saying. The State is fragmented. Zanu-PF is fragmented. The opposition and social movements have been emboldened by the actions they have taken; they are in a more aggressive position, which is good. There is also international isolation and the continued demand by the international community to put conditions on the Mugabe Government to be rescued from their own economic situation. It s a fantastic combination. There s a convergence. Mr Tsvangirai has in the past called for the violent removal of President Mugabe.During a rally at the turn of the millennium Mr Tsvangirai said: What we would like to tell (President) Mugabe today is please go peacefully, if you do not want to go peacefully we will remove you violently. When contacted for comment MDC-T spokesperson, Mr Obert Gutu said Mr Tsvangirai was merely urging people to exercise their constitutional rights. The people of Zimbabwe are being called upon to take advantage of their fundamental human rights and liberties enshrined in the Constitution and thus, to peacefully rise up against the paranoid and crumbling ZANU- PF dictatorship, said Mr Gutu without elaborating.The South African newspaper also questioned Mr Tsvangirai s lifestyle and questioned his credentials to represent the poor as what he claimed. Can a man who lives in a mansion ever really claim to speak for the people? For the last few years, these questions have been loud, but largely academic. Still bruised from the hammering they received in 2013, Zimbabwe s opposition powerless and bitterly divided sank into a torpor. From the outside, at least, Tsvangirai appeared to be spending more time on golf than politics and presided over a movement that was offering rapidly diminishing returns, wrote Simon Allison the journalist of The Daily Maverick.