Cindy MunyaviTafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion Talk 263Happy weekend and the weather seems to be getting fine. It s business as usual in the fashion world. Sometimes you don t need any hassle on what to wear as with a fine weather it is very easy. The great thing about fashion is that it always looks forward. So step around and make the world your runway.I agree with the late icon Marilyn Monroe s statement, Give a girl the right shoes and she can conquer the world .The statement above supports my notion about the last week s inaugural Zimbabwe Radio Awards (Zira) red carpet moments. Zimbabwe we are now almost there when it comes to hosting red carpet affair.Who knew apart from having beautiful voices and charming on the microphones, radio stations, disc jockeys know how to pull the wardrobe. Yes, the awards were meant to recognise and appreciate the unsung heroes, thus the radio personalities.I was astounded with what I saw although the show didn t live up to billing, but people came dressed for the event. According to fashion police, the best dressed went to award winner songstress Cindy Munyavi who wore a short gold like mellow dress with white edge collar. She chose white spike matching shoes and blended well with her grey hair &#8211; the in thing and guess every girl has tried to rock the style but not many pulled it through.For Cindy, this is not new as she has set the record straight as one of the best dressed female musicians in Zimbabwe.Her secret being she is not afraid to follow trends or try out or start new things.Still on Zira, the worst dressed went to Maxwell Nyatsambo, spokesperson of the show. He wore a brown kaftan which did not even by inch fit him as looked like a mosque running away from church.Nyatsambo can be forgiven for the bad choice or wardrobe disaster reason being as one of the organisers, he might have missed it or didn t have proper time to figure it out what is best to wear, so maybe chose his grandmother kaftan.I rest my case on that as I might be persecuted but be guided; this is the purpose of this column.Back to the fashion couture check, so after attending the Zira, and witnessing how celebrities are trending with their attire, my friend Nesbert asked me should the belt, socks and trousers match all the time. And for ladies, should bags, clutches or purse match the garment?The debate was raised first after one of the awards host Justin Mahlahla wore a brown belt and black shoes.If you decide to be in the limelight make sure the light shines so bright.However, on socks, pants and belt, the primary rule to this is that your socks should always match the colour of your pants because they are an extension of your pants. Think about when you re sitting down or walking and your socks become visible, a consistent sock pant colour will not interrupt your silhouette.A sub rule to this is that you always want that sock colour to be equal or darker shade of your pant colour, not a brighter shade. So if you are wearing navy blue pants, you should wear navy blue or midnight blue socks.The secondary rule is that you are wearing a suit or pants on the lighter side of the colour scale, it s okay to match your sock to the colour of shoe. For example, if you re wearing beige-coloured khakis, and slacks among others you don t need to wear beige-coloured socks.Some men like to wear multi-coloured socks with different patterns (argyles, stripes, etc.) or solid bright coloured socks to match a pocket square or tie.This may be okay in certain occasions but stay away from this if you re going to work or an interview.For ladies, the golden rule is to try to match your handbag and outfit.Kate Middleton, Victoria Posh Beckham, Miranda Kerr, Salma Hayek, Angelina Jolie, Cate Blanchett, Nicole Kidman and Kim Kardashian West, every style diva worth her name and fame makes headlines not just for the outfit she wears but also for the handbag that she carries with it.It is a no-brainer style secret that clothes and bags work together in creating that it look. However great your outfit or other accessories, the perfect finishing touch comes from a good bag.So, to up your style quotient to the next level, you need to choose your bag with due care to go with your outfit.Ask yourself what occasion are you dressed for?Office, shopping, casual, dressy, formal, semi, informal, gala, red carpet- what you wear and which bag you carry with it depends first and foremost on the occasion. You need to know that generally speaking, large bags give a relaxing aura, small bags add sophistication.That s the reason, large bags go with casuals and small bags go with formals.The first rule to remember is that a stiff bag and casual outfit, or a casual bag and a formal outfit do not work together.Make sure you are not caught on the wrong side of the hanger otherwise you won t survive the trial.Until next week, continue living the life you always wanted with fashion in mind.