Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Under-20 coach Mandla Mpofu believes the Young Warriors will flex their muscles at this year s COSAFA Under-20 Championships in South Africa. Mpofu has named a 35-member training squad which is expected to begin camp in Harare on Monday.The Young Warriors reached the semi-final stage at the last tournament in Lesotho three years ago.They are one of the most decorated teams in the history of the event behind Zambia, but their last success came in 2007 when they won their sixth title.Mpofu yesterday told The Herald that he was encouraged by the performances displayed by most of his players ahead of this year s tournament.Most of the young players who include Prince Dube (Highlanders), Jerry Chipangura (Harare City), Derwin Phiri (Triangle), Tatenda Mchisi (Ngezi Platinum Stars), Learnmore Muyambo, Tatenda Tumba (Harare City), King Nasama (Dynamos) and Ngezi Platinum goalkeeper Nelson Chadya were given generous game time by their clubs in the Castle Lager Premiership.Mpofu has also called midfielder Patrick Musaka who plays in South Africa for Black Leopards alongside regular members Denzel Khumalo and Bukhosi Sibanda who recently helped Bantu Rovers reclaim the Southern Region Division One league title. I am happy most of the guys have been playing for their clubs in the Premiership and in Division One. I am sure we are going to build our team around most of these guys, said Mpofu.The tournament will take place in South Africa s North West province from December 7-16. Zimbabwe were placed in Group B and will play Zambia and Malawi.Hosts South Africa have been placed in Group A with Lesotho, Botswana and Swaziland. Group C has Angola, Namibia, Seychelles and Mauritius while Mozambique, Comoros and Rwanda make up Group D. Of course we are the team to beat in our group. We were seeded on account of our good performances at the previous tournament where we finished in the semi-finals. But with teams like Zambia and Malawi, you cannot afford to underrate anyone. We have to be at our best and I am sure with good preparation we can do it, said Mpofu. We had proposed to go in camp on November 21 so we are still waiting for the feedback from the association. Basically I have a two-week programme in which the first will be for assessment and then the next we trim down the squad to remain with the 20 players as per COSAFA requirements. Zimbabwe have two weeks to prepare and are scheduled to leave for the tournament on December 5. Warriors fringe goalkeeper Nelson Chadya is likely to headline the squad following a brilliant season in which he won the Chibuku Super Cup with Ngezi Platinum.Chadya has been competing for the starting place at Ngezi Platinum and his exploits have even attracted the eye of the senior national team coach Callisto Pasuwa.He was part of the Warriors side that took part at the COSAFA senior men tournament in Namibia this year and has also been included in the Warriors training squad for the African Cup of Nations as cover to Tatenda Mukuruva and Donovan Bernard. Chadya has been part of us even during the qualifiers for the Africa Cup of nations. We value his experience so much. We were supposed to travel with him to Cameroon for the final qualifier, but he missed that trip because he had been called to the national team for the COSAFA Cup senior men tournament. We also have players like Prince Dube, Jerry Chipangura and Leeroy Mavhunga of Yaddah who have done well for their clubs, said Mpofu.Zimbabwe are the second most successful team at the tournament with six titles under the belt. Since their last victory in 2007 they have reached the semifinals in four of the last five tournaments, but only managed a pair of third-place finishes in 2009 and 2010.Zimbabwe Training SquadGoalkeepers: Elisha Nechiturike, Nelson Chadya, Prince Phiri, Kelvin Shangiwa.Defenders: Last Kapuya, Derwin Phiri, Angel Dexter, Bukhosi Ncube, Prince Motsi, Kuzivakwashe Madina, Simbarashe Chimanikire, Tatenda Mchisi, Shepherd Maradzamunda, Frederick Dzeka.Midfielders: Learnmore Muyambo, Patrick Musaka, Brave Sibanda, Denzil Khumalo, Amos Ncube, Bukhosi Sibanda, Leeroy Mavunga, Munyaradzi Chitambwe, Raynold Mate, Donnet Ndlovu, Hugh Chikosa, Bright Majamanda, Brighton Mhungu.Strikers: Prince Dube, Thomas Kadyaridzire, Jerry Chipangura, Nqobile Ndlovu, Blessing Sibanda, Knowledge Ndlovu, Ishmael Mushekwi, Tatenda Tumba, Clive Rupiya, King Nasama, Frederick Muza.