Suluman ChimbetuTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent&#8212;Several musicians are ready to celebrate with dendera musician Suluman Chimbetu who ties the knot with his wife Linda Samuriwo on Saturday this week in Greendale. The event will be a double celebration as he launches new album Jamboree .Jah Prayzah through his manager Keen Mushapaidze said the event was an eye opener to several other artistes. Sulu s wedding is an eye opener to us all. We are ready to celebrate with him on the big day, he said.Jah Prayzah will be the best man while his wife Rufaro will be the best lady.His cousin Tryson was elated by the event. This is a family event and we are looking forward to it. He set an example to us the young brothers as well as fellow musicians, he said.Franco Slomo who once worked with Sulu said it was always good to be invited for such a big event. I have worked with him at Dendera Kings before I started my own things and he was a good boss. I am happy to be part of the historic event, he said.Suluman s publicist Joe Nyamungoma said they decided to come up with a different idea as a way of taking the musician s career to another level. Behind every successful man there is a woman and this album will be a success because of the support he has been getting from his wife. So in that regard we decided to launch on the day of the wedding, he said.Nyamungoma said all the artistes have confirmed their participation on the wedding. All invited guests have confirmed and we are waiting for the day, he said.A massive party has been lined up at Belgravia Sports Club celebrating the double achievement for the musician.Since the death of his father in 2005, Suluman left the Airforce and pursued music. His first album Ndomusiya Nani was well received by music lovers followed by Reverse Deal in 2009. Non-Stop managed to take the musician a step ahead though Syllabus was the cut above the rest.With songs Sean Timba and Nhambarikoshoni he became the darling of corporate and he clinched several deals and awards.