RIO DE JANEIRO. &#8211; A plane carrying members of a Brazilian football team has crashed in Colombia. Medellin s international airport said on its Twitter account that the aircraft had left from Bolivia. Officials from the airport reported only six survivors in a statement.Three players from Brazil s Chapecoense soccer team survived the plane crash in Colombia that killed 76 people, Colombian authorities said yesterday.Players Alan Luciano Ruschel, Marcos Danilo Padilha and Jacson Ragnar Follmann were listed as survivors in a statement from the disaster management agency.Passengers Rafael Correa Gobbato and Ximena Suarez also survived.All five were being treated at hospitals near the crash site.The plane had declared an emergency due to power failure before losing contact with the control tower.Colombia has been hit by heavy storms which are hampering rescue efforts. The site of the accident is only accessible by land due to climatic conditions and low visibility, a statement from the airport said. The Colombian Air Force deployed a search and rescue helicopter which had to cancel the mission due to the adverse conditions. According to the authorities, the police are mobilising all possible help since they are reporting six survivors. Local media has reported that the charter aircraft was carrying members of Brazil Serie A side Chapecoense, who were scheduled to play in the Copa Sudamerica finals against Atletico National in Medellin today.It is believed to have come down in a mountainous area outside Medellin shortly before midnight local time.Meanwhile, CONMEBOL have announced a suspension to all football after a plane carrying Brazilian football team Chapecoense crashed in ColombiaThe flight was transporting the Brazilian side to Medellin Airport when it disappeared off radar.There were 72 passengers and 9 crew on board the charter plane, which was carrying the team to their match against Atletico Nacional.Officials from Jose Maria Cordova International Airport reported only five survivors in a statement.And reacting swiftly to the news the governing body announced that all football activity in the region is now suspended until further notice. The South American Football Confederation confirms that it has been notified by Colombian authorities that a plane that was carrying the delegation of Brazil Chapecoense Atletico had an accident on its arrival in Colombia, they announced in a statement. We are in contact with the authorities and awaiting official progress. CONMEBOL greatly regrets what happened. All activities of the Confederation are suspended until further notice. It was also announced that CONMEBOL president Alejandro Dom nguez was on his way to Medell n.A video shared on Twitter claimed to show the moment the plane disappeared from view on flight radar.The plane reportedly crashed due to lack of fuel at around 10:15pm local time.It is thought to have come down in Cerro Gordo in the municipality of La Union, according to Mi Oriente.Colombia has been hit by heavy storms which are hampering rescue efforts.There have reportedly been a number of fatalities, although an exact number is as yet unknown.Chapecoense had reached the finals of the Copa Sudamericana by beating Argentina s San Lorenzo over two legs in the semi-finals, which concluded last week.A picture of the team on board a plane has been tweeted, but it is unclear whether it was taken before the doomed flight.Earlier in the day, the Chapocoense football team s official Facebook page posted a video of the players waiting to board the flight at Viru Viru International Airport in the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia.Meanwhile, the soccer world was in mourning yesterday as clubs, players and fans from around the globe sent tributes and support to Brazilian side Chapecoense following a deadly air crash in Colombia that killed 76 people, including several players.The small club from the town of Chapeco had been heading for the biggest game in its history, the first leg of today s Copa Sudamericana final, when its plane crashed in a mountainous rural area outside of the city of Medellin.One of the first messages came from their rivals in today s now postponed final, Atletico Nacional of Medellin. Nacional deeply laments and stands in solidarity with @ChapecoenseReal in the accident and we await information from authorities, the home town club tweeted soon after the disaster was reported.FIFA president Infantino said on Twitter: At this difficult time our thoughts are with the victims, their families and friends. Rivals of both clubs tweeted their support, with Flamengo and Santos in Brazil, and Club Junior and Millionarios in Colombia among those sending their condolences, many of them accompanied by the hashtag #ForcaChape, or Strength Chapecoense.The crash struck a chord with clubs elsewhere, with Arsenal saying: Thinking of you, @ChapecoenseReal and Barcelona tweeting: All our support and solidarity is with the victims and the families affected by the @ChapecoenseReal tragedy in Colombia. England captain Wayne Rooney tweeted: Sad news to wake up to today. Thoughts are with @ChapecoenseReal and their family and friends .Real Madrid players observed a minute s silence before training yesterday morning and players from around the world shared their condolences.Brazilian striker Neymar simply tweeted the club badge and Porto goalkeeper Iker Casillas said Good luck and stay strong! Former Germany captain Michael Ballack tweeted: Very sad to read #RIP #Chapecoense Remember we are never safe and anything can happen, so make sure to tell your loved ones that you care. Sao Paulo cancelled plans to present Rogerio Ceni as their new coach yesterday and the Brazilian Football Confederation suspended tonight s second leg of the Brazilian Cup final between Gremio and Atletico Mineiro. &#8211; Sky Sports.