Chido ChizondoPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter FC Platinum believe they will exorcise the ghost that has haunted them every season in Week 29 and come out with a positive result against Highlanders at Mandava tomorrow afternoon. The match will be broadcast live on SuperSport.In 2011 they lost to Dynamos when they just needed a draw.Last season they were held to a 1-1 draw by Flame Lily and their hopes were shattered again at Lafarge with Marshal Mudehwe scoring the equaliser. We are not under any pressure at all, but we are just taking each game as it comes. The league is rounding up and we are going to give it 100 percent effort, said club spokesperson Chido Chizondo. We are expecting a positive result on Sunday and we are very confident that the boys will deliver. The break gave us the time to sit down and restrategise and we are happy with our form We respect Highlanders very much because they are a great club who have won the championship so many times and it is our hope that one day we will emulate them and be champions. Highlanders mentor Erol Akbay is bubbling with confidence. It s tricky, but a very big game for us and Platinum. CAPS United also have a big game. If we win and CAPS United lose we can go all the way and win the league, said Akbay. Our chances are very slim, but on paper we still have the chance. We want to go to Mandava to play and win the match and hope that CAPS United will lose points I have enjoyed my stay here. Zimbabwe is a very nice country with very talented players. The players are big and I am enjoying my stay here. The fans are passionate about their teams and the efforts by the coaches are appreciated. To be really honest I am very happy working in this country and working for Highlanders. King Nadolo, Prince Dube and veteran goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda have been impressive for Bosso.The hosts will welcome back Charles Sibanda and the evergreen Winston Mhango.The duo missed the final against Ngezi Platinum as they were recovering after being involved in an accident.Rodwell Chinyengetere has been playing well for the hosts.