Tendai MavengeniLovemore Meya Arts Correspondent&#8212;Fast rising 15-year-old mbira sensation, Tendai Mavengeni will this Friday launch her two singles Motoroodza and Munzira Yakachena taken off her forthcoming self-titled second album Tendai at Alliance Francaise. This project follows two years after she released her debut album, Destiny in 2014. Speaking ahead of the launch, Tendai said, I am excited about this project. I know I have grown from the first project and hope people will love the effort we have put in this project. The gifted composer says she is keen to tackle issues to do with the girl child.She reflects these issues on one of the songs Motoroodza while the second track Munzira Yakachena is a plea for God s protection from the evil that is haunting the world.Adrian Mparutsa, who is the producer of the album said, Being part of this creative process has been a good experience as I worked with a young artiste who has so much depth. Her writing is profound and subjects one to a lot of introspection. As the producer all I had to do was magnify her thoughts to bring out the musical product. Tendai s supportive parents Chengetai and Boniface Mavengeni have been her pillars of strength since her formative stages.They encouraged their daughter to balance both her academic and artistic life. I would like to see her excel in both her art and academics to make her a full-rounded individual, said her mother Chengetai.Although they are protective like parents should be, Tendai enjoys the freedom to write, arrange her music the way she wants. We argue sometimes, about lyrics and the way the music is arranged but we want her eventually to be able to stand on her own. She must learn the business side of her art without us interfering but giving advice and in the end the final decision on what stays is hers, said Tendai s father.Born in December 2000 in Harare, Tendai is a student currently doing her Form Three at Malbereign Girls High.Tendai has a passion for music, particularly traditional music that was influenced by the music she grew up listening to.She started playing mbira at the age of nine and she was taught and mentored by respected mbira players Trymore Guchi Jombo and Brezhnev Guveya.