Abigail Mawonde: Herald CorrespondentTHE Auditor-General s Office has unveiled a five-year strategic plan aimed at improving service delivery in public utilities in the country. Chief among the goals of the plan is improving public sector transparency and accountability in service delivery by 2020. Addressing delegates at the launch of the strategic plan in Harare recently, Auditor-General Mrs Mildred Chiri said it would increase accountability. Governments and organisations the world over face increasing internal and external pressures to demonstrate accountability, transparency and results. The Government of Zimbabwe has since independence embarked on various reform programmes in an effort to improve the level of service delivery and accountability and all public entities have been encouraged to come up with documented strategies, said Mrs Chiri. The nation looks up to SAI (Supreme Audit Institution) to give them the assurance on the accountability and transparency of the public sector entities in the utilisation of resources allocated to them and provision of services for the betterment of the lives of Zimbabweans, she said.Mrs Chiri said the strategic plan, which was developed at the beginning of the year, defines the path to be followed for the next five years.Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda applauded the Auditor General s Office for taking the lead in fulfilling Government policies. I want to appreciate the steps that the Auditor-General has taken in coming up with this strategic plan. I understand this was preceded by a number of workshops being held in 2015 in preparation for this document and event, he said. The strategic plan defines the path which an entity wants to take for a given period. It is this document that the public would measure the office s performance and thereby justifying its existence, he said. This has already been demonstrated by the success stories we have witnessed under the very difficult challenges our economy has been facing. Over the two successive years, the office was able to table in Parliament the report of the Auditor-General well before the statutory deadline. This can only be achieved if there is proper organisation of thought-processes summed in a plan. 