BRIGHTON DAMBUDZO SHOWCASING ONE OF HIS ARTWORKSTawanda Matanhire Arts Reporter &#8212; A number of art exhibitions this week brought colour to Herald House as Zimpapers played a role in promoting creative displays from several students from Chinhoyi Univeristy of Technology. The exhibitions held under different themes showcased the work done by the artists throughout their courses to present day.Brighton Karongosora Dambudzo, a senior graphic designer at Zimpapers who is currently working to attain a Bsc Hons Degree in Creative Art and Designing, said he was exhibiting his work under the theme Beehive and part of the exhibition work was being showcased at the National Art Gallery of Zimbabwe. I am exhibiting under the theme Beehive and some of the work that is part of the showcase is on show at the Art Gallery, Dambudzo said.He said he prefers to express his thoughts through art.Another student artist Lazarus Safarao held his solo exhibition under the theme Rwendo which is in reference to his artistic journey since he started doing art.Safarao said he has grown his passion from a very young age and is pursuing a dream of his life. I ve loved to be an artist since I was very young and this has been a dream for my life which is just getting started, he said.Acting Zimpapers General Manager Darlick Marandure who was a guest speaker at Priscilla Tariro Kamangira s Emotional Junction exhibition said it has brought mutual beneficial relationship between Zimpapers and Chinhoyi University. This exhibition has brought to light a mutual beneficial relationship between Zimpapers and Chinhoyi University, he said.He urged students to take action and appreciate parents for sending them to school. Do not sleep walk through life, take time to get appreciated, he said. Appreciate all the hands that have taken part in developing you and have contributed to your success. Marandure said.Kamangira s exhibition was inspired by emotions and experiences throughout her degree programme. The exhibition is inspired by emotions and my experience throughout my learning and it showcases everything I have learnt so far thus the title Emotional junction , Kamangira said.Also exhibiting his work was Calvin Mangwanya. Themed Tsimba the exhibition pursued several themes that included wildlife and several other issues. I named it Tsimba reflecting on the journey I have travelled. I am happy that the exhibition has been successful, he said.Mangwanya said he worked on many types of visual arts and his works had been instrumental in expressing his views. Art is a form of expression and this is how I express myself. I used many types of art to give people the best, he said.He is optimistic that the exhibition will be instrumental to take his work forward.Simbarashe Manhenda who showcased his artwork under the theme Dziva said most people don t appreciate art yet it involves a lot of thinking. Most people in the country don t appreciate art yet there is a lot of thinking involved. Giving my exhibition this theme implies that people should dig deep so that they get to appreciate talent, Manhenda said.