Innocent Choga Fitness Rain season is the time when most Zimbabweans get fit involuntarily. We subconsciously get fit by cultivating and weeding the fields. As it is there are a lot of agricultural activities all around the country. Gardening has always been recommended as a fitness activity, but farming is intense because it requires a much more serious approach and commitment within a set period of time.For the rural farmer it is a means of sustenance, for large scale farmers it is business, for the urban farmer it is for sustenance and it may be a hobby. My parents were hooked on to this activity and my uncle was large scale farmer. I also have many friends that are hooked on to this activity.In my opinion based on observations and experience, this activity is a hobby for many. Although they all speak of motivation coming mainly from the idea of putting food on the table, I bet even with a lot of money in their pockets many of them will still take to the fields.Apart from the motivation that comes with high yields and enjoying their own fresh produce, just sowing and watching plants thrive and grow seem to excite many farmers. The lush green fields seem to lift their spirits high and this euphoric feeling pushes them to strive to do more.I consulted one of my farming friends Mr Douglas Mushamba (62) who is into both urban and rural farming. Mr Mushamba says he is motivated by success and putting food on the table. Despite the poor rains we received last year he reaped 12 x50kg bags of maize at his small swampy urban field.But what fitness components and muscles are involved when we work manually in the fields? Mr Mushamba says he feels pain mostly in the shoulders and arms. He cited the lower back pain as a major problem associated with the activities, but at times the whole body will be in pain.Strength is required during the digging activity, but the most fitness component required is muscular endurance. There are two things happening during the processes; we have some muscles working repetitively all the time, whilst the other supporting muscles are in a static position, constantly tensed.When weeding the shoulder is the anchor or centre of activity providing arm, upper back and middle back movement all the time. There is very little movement of the trunk so the lower back is always bent and tense. When digging, depending on individuals digging style, the lower back may act as the anchor of the movement. It may not be a full movement but it is a bit longer in comparison.During both the digging and weeding processes there is little leg movement and therefore the legs are not heavily exercised because of the almost static position. The hamstrings like the lower back are always stretched, tense and stressed.Regular stretching will loosen and relax the working muscles and frequent exercising will help increase the blood flow in the static and tense muscles. This will help ease the pain and condition these muscles for prolonged use.The lower back and hamstrings can be conditioned by doing some bent over exercise during the occasional breaks that we take. Here one would just stand with legs straight, feet wide apart bending over, touching the ground and repeating the movement.The other exercise would be trunk twisting and side bends. I would also recommend jump squats for the thighs and calves. I also recommend standing leg curls; standing on one leg with one hand holding the hoe for balance then curling the other leg repetitively. These exercises will ensure that blood flows into these stressed areas.The rest of the muscles should just be stretched particularly the arms, shoulders upper and middle back. Circling the arms around helps loosen the shoulders. There is little chest muscles involvement in any way, so for a complete workout press ups will do for the young farmers.In certain instances instead of getting fit through farming activities one can also become frail if the fitness equation is not well balanced. Because summer time is also simmer time, coolants are necessary to avoid dehydration. Adequate food is also required for energy. If you are not hydrated properly and well fed you have no source of energy. You might spend the whole day in the fields scrapping and trying to catch a rest and misconstrue the time spent in the fields with the actual time spent working productively.Most people who are into these activities, especially the elderly, never want to go home until the sun sets. At the end of this particular season my parents always looked thin and scrawl. They enjoyed the activities but they always got us worried.My mother was a nutritionist she knew all about good eating habits, but she would get so engrossed in the activities and flouted the nutrition rules she knew so well. My beloved farmer uncle passed away as he took a rest under a tree, he suffered a heart attack. He was a workaholic, a good farmer, with a hands on the job approach.Many farming friends of mine also look much too lean after this season.I can conclude that either they do not eat adequately at times or they overwork to the extent that they end up in a catabolic state; eating and using their muscles for energy not because they do not have food but they get caught up in these activities and do not care about eating.If you are to get the most out of your body without compromising your health, make sure the energy consumed and energy expended balance. Meals should consist not only of carbohydrates, but also of proteins, fats, minerals and vitamins.A reasonable amount of rest and good food will enable you to do more work properly. Mr Mushamba said timing is necessary and an early start helps him to avoid overworking , because mistiming will result in him rushing against time as some processes need to be done at a particular time to ensure that the venture will be profitable.He said digging well before planting helps lessen the burden of weeding. In this aspect, he said the rural activities are much lighter than the urban activities.In rural activities the plough assists, but pulling the plough involves strength, pace, leg, arm and shoulder work .Balance is required since you have to control the plough. There is also some cardio and back work since you will be following the pace of the pulling cattle. If the cattle are stubborn and uncontrollable it means more work/exercise. He says he leaves this activity to the young because of the requirements.It is not only the elderly that should take part in these activities, but the young people should help ease the burden on the elders so they do not overwork . I suppose the young could also assist the elderly in stretching and exercising to ease the pains.I pray that we get good rains, and good yields. I also hope that we all get fit and not sick during this farming season.Innocent Choga is a six time National Body building Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport. Email: innocentfchoga@gmail.com