PUT THE MUSIC ON . . . CAPS United players are caught in a jubilant mood as they dance together after clinching the 2016 Castle Lager Premiership soccer title following their 1-0 victory over Chapungu United at Ascot Stadium on Saturday. (Picture by Innocent Makawa)Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter&#8212; VETERAN forward Leonard Tsipa yesterday ridiculed the notion that age is a hindrance to success in sport as he celebrated winning the Castle Lager Premiership soccer title with CAPS United and scooping the Golden Boot award for 2016 season. Tsipa, who had a dream comeback season with the Green Machine, is also tipped for more honours when the selection panel for this year s Soccer Stars of the Year awards convene in Harare tomorrow to pick the 11 players who illuminated the scene during the just-ended season. The 34-year-old Mbare-born striker won his third title with Makepekepe on Saturday when the Harare giants edged Chapungu United 1-0 at Ascot to fend off a stiff challenge from runners-up FC Platinum.The Green Machine finished the season on 63 points, two ahead of the platinum miners who hammered Tsholotsho 3-0 in their last game on the same day. And Tsipa was over the moon yesterday after tying up his third league title in a career spanning over a decade. His 11 goals this season earned him the Golden Boot award.DANGER IN THE HOUSE . . . CAPS United s ageless striker Leonard Tsipa (right) closes in on Chapungu United goalkeeper Talbbert Shumba during Saturday s Castle Lager Premiership soccer match at Ascot. Picture by Innocent MakawaInterestingly, Tsipa was also the top goalscorer when CAPS United won the championship in 2004. Then he was more prolific, scoring 18 goals. Tsipa almost quit football a few years back after spending nearly two seasons on the sidelines. He resuscitated his career when he moved to Botswana where he played for that country s Premiership side Motlakase Power Dynamos until 2013.British coach Mark Harrison gave him another chance last season at CAPS United, impressed by his work rate and professional approach to work. I am happy with the Golden Boot. It s quite an achievement, especially winning it for the second time in my career and considering that I almost quit football a few years back. It s incredible. When I returned to CAPS United many people had thought I was a spent force because of my age. Normally, it s very difficult for any team to take you on board if you have gone beyond 30. But look at me now, age is definitely just a number. The people at CAPS United gave me another lease of life. They showed me love and acceptance when many thought otherwise. That even prompted me to work very hard. There are many young players who could have won this (Golden Boot) but by God s grace I have done it. Let me also not forget to say it was a result of team effort. I would want to give credit to my teammates, the coaches, the supporters and even our management especially the president (Farai Jere). He sacrificed a lot under very difficult conditions and this is for him, said Tsipa. This was CAPS United fifth title overall, starting off with the success of 1979, 1996, 2004 and 2005.Tsipa and his coach Lloyd Chitembwe, who became the first CAPS United player to win the silverware both as player and coach, were key players in the class that last won the championship back-to-back in 2004 and 2005.It took them 11 years to break the jinx. As a club, we are very excited to achieve this feat. It has been a very long time since we last won this. Anywhere in the world, it s every player s wish to win a league title. It means a lot if we are to compare it with all the other domestic trophies. It s one of the most important souvenirs you can collect as a player. I may run out of words to describe the feeling but what I am sure of is that I am very happy with this. Mind you, this is my third title with this club. Even if I am to retire from football now, I will forever cherish this moment, said Tsipa. Makepekepe have since confirmed they will represent Zimbabwe in the CAF Champions League next year and Tsipa is looking forward to the challenge. Everyone is happy with the decision to play in the Champions League next year. It s very encouraging and motivating. I am grateful to our management. Personally I have played continental football before and this is a great opportunity especially for the younger players. It s a chance for exposure because Champions League football is followed across the continent. The Green Machine chief executive Cuthbert Chitima said the Harare giants are now putting up plans for a victory parade to be held in Harare at the weekend. It has been long since our supporters last had this feeling. Plans are afoot to hold a victory parade this coming Saturday. We have to map where we should start and where we are going to end. Obviously we will finish with a braai or something of that sort. We want to take the opportunity to say thank you to our supporters. They have been there for us throughout and they even chipped in with cash donations and hampers to motivate the team. There was unity of purpose all-round, we were one big family, said Chitima. We had this feeling from the start of the season that this is going to be our year. So we worked hard towards that feat. The coaches worked round the clock to prepare a winning team. The players demonstrated amazing fighting spirit. I can pick two or three games as examples. The game we played against ZPC Kariba at Rufaro when we trailed 2-0 until probably the last 20 minutes but we still got a point. The second example was this game against How Mine which we conceded a 90th minute penalty but we somehow fought back and won the game 3-2 and then there was the Harare derby against Dynamos which we trailed 3-0 until the 85th minute but still we managed to equalise in the last five minutes. That performance should say a lot about the seriousness in this championship campaign. We now look to play in Africa. The decision has already been made and now we have to start preparing, said Chitima.