Tendai (kneeling) and her group performing one of the songsLovemore Meya: Arts CorrespondentFIFTEEN-YEAR-OLD mbira sensation Tendai Mavengeni last Friday launched her double singles taken off her self-titled second album Tendai with a powerful performance that left lasting impressions. The Mabelreign High pupil dazzled the fully-packed auditorium at the popular hub Allaince Francaise with her adeptness on the instrument that she played with absolute finesse.Getting the crowd into the merrymaking mood was prominent producer, Mono Mukundu who, as the master of ceremonies, cracked jokes that left many in sticthes. Upcoming musician Liecha Goreraza curtain raised for Tendai by playing mbira and singing her own composition.Not to be outdone was Tendai s schoolmates Mabelreign Girls High band who also performed before she came to the stage.Before Tendai s grand entry, guest of honour Kessia (Muchaneta) Magosha also spoke at length on how she saw Tendai slowly rising to become a force to reckon with. I remember seeing Tendai when she was still young at the Sistaz Open Mic at Book Caf doing her thing. She would constantly come for advise to me asking if she was striking the right chord, said Magosha.Her producer Adrian Muparutsa was short of words about the reception the music received. This is just too good to mention as I never thought that Tendai could pull out such a huge turnout and her music says it all. She is heading in the right direction. I think this is a plus on my part and I actually respect the way we have been working on this project. Having to see the music well-received feels awesome and it means we are doing something good, he said.During her tight act, Tendai left the crowd spellbound as she would engage them throughout her performance.It was a touching moment when Tendai explained that she wrote the track Motoroodza with a heavy heart. I wrote this song with a heavy heart as it was inspired by early marriages affecting the girl-child. It is disturbing to see a girl of about nine-years being married off to someone far march older, she said amid raptures of applause.Another song she launched was Munzira Yakachena which proved to be the crowd s favourite as the pleased fun-lovers called for an encore.