Mercedes Benz GLSTinashe Makichi Motoring CorrespondentWith time, success and experience means your goals as a person do not only become fewer but the road towards them becomes more beautiful. With boundless serene majesty the new Mercedes Benz GLS launched yesterday, re-defines the concept of comfort thanks to the numerous standard and optional equipment items available to it.This new SUV embodies calm serenity in every situation. In this case, more superbly confident and safer everything feels easier on the road with the new Mercedes Benz GLS, the SUV of the S-Class family.Launched yesterday, the GLS boasts of standard fit Airmatic package including air suspension and ADS PLUS adaptive damping system, delivers great ride comfort both on and off-road.The damping at each wheel adapts to the current driving situation, instantly and infinitely variably from more comfortable to sporty as required. You can adjust handling your GLS perfectly to suit the situation at hand by turning the standard-fit Dynamic Select rotary switch. In addition to the four standard programmes, Comfort, Sport, Ice and Individual, the optional Off-road Engineering package offers you two more off-road programmes, said Mercedes Benz Africa.In addition the Mercedes-MAG GLS also features the Sport Plus programme &#8211; with the chassis lowered by 25 millimetres and a particularly taut suspension setting. The characteristics of engine, transmission, suspension and steering are automatically adjusted in accordance with the drive programme selected.Travelling aboard it is pure enjoyment. Up to seven persons can enjoy a modern interpretation of luxury, such as the ionisation of the interior air, which significantly improves the quality of the air inside the vehicle.Aboard the GLS you can feel secure. Mercedes-Benz s decades of experience have flowed into the numerous assistance systems available, systems that register complex situations and can support you both while driving and in hazardous situations.The standard-fit Active Brake Assist function, for example, warns you if the distance to a vehicle travelling ahead narrows down too much, it can assist when braking and even reduces the vehicle s speed itself if the driver fails to react.With the optional driving assist package and you can also receive a whole combination of complementary safety and assistance systems, for instance Distronic with Steering Pilot and Stop and Go Pilot. This system helps you maintain a safe distance to the vehicle travelling ahead of you. It brakes the vehicle where necessary and then accelerates it again up to the desired speed where this is possible. It also helps the driver keep the vehicle in the centre of the lane, said Mercedes Benz Africa.Few people can dominate a scene alone with their presence and then there is the Mercedes-Benz GLS. It immediately conquers all around it with the force of its sheer presence.Its front section radiates a superbly confident presence with its power domes, while its striking silhouette is the epitome of character. And car s powerful rear rounds off its dominant look.The elegance and value appeal of the Mercedes-Benz GLS are clearly manifest in the vehicle s exterior. The advanced design of the GLS transmits sensuous clarity and at the same time strengthens its dominant stance and presence.In particular the car s front section demonstrates the strong presence of the Mercedes-Benz GLS. This is thanks to the striking front bumper with diamond grille and SUV-typical under guard in chrome look and the bonnet with its mighty power domes.Vertical radiator trim, with centrally-positioned Mercedes star and two three-dimensional louvres, emphasises both the value appeal and the SUV nature of this vehicle.New customisation possibilities, such as the AMG Exterior Line with large AMG light-alloy wheels with flared wheel arches, lend the side aspect of the GLS a unique dynamism.Chrome trim elements above the side windows, on the belt lines and on the side sill panels add to the car s elegance.The GLS s rear presents itself as unmistakably sporty. Unparalleled too is the design of its rear lamps, while the rear bumper with its redesigned lower section reinforces the vehicle s athletic looks.With appointments colours ginger beige, crystal grey, espresso brown, saddle brown, pearl black and black together with the painstaking detail work done, the colour concept of the Mercedes-Benz GLS underscores the luxurious overall impression of the vehicle interior.The thin silver-chrome surrounds of the large media display, the keys of the multi function steering wheel and the seat position controls located in the doors further enhance the vehicle s value appeal.