Chamunorwa ShumbaToneo Rutsito Technology CorrespondentMobile phone manufacturer Gtel has launched its new smart phone, the X4, which is packed with high end specifications and longer battery life. Speaking at the official launch of the smart-phone yesterday, Gtel CEO Chamunorwa Shumba said with the X4, Zimbabwe will have the best smart-phone ever with serious battery power to take care of all daily smart-phone routines . We have had many nice smart-phones, but we are really excited about the next flagship with serious battery power to last you days while the processor and storage will change the way humans relate to smart-phones. Information Technology,Postal and Courier Services Deputy Minister Dr Win Mlambo who was guest of owner at the launch said Government was committed to the growth of ICT s and will continue coming up with policies that foster and enable growth of local companies. Gtel has been at the forefront of employment creation employing hundreds of Zimbabweans in their production processes. The entrance of players like Gtel has by all means led to Zimbabwe s sky-rocketing mobile penetration rate which to date stands at over 96,5 percent, said Dr Mlambo.The new Gtel X4 comes with a 60 Inch HD AMOLED display, with capacitive touch-screen and a corning Gorilla Glass 3 making your digital images come alive with such vibrancy. The screen resolution is 1920&#215;1080 pixels thus producing vivid and bright pictures, colour production, viewing angles and touch response is very good.This device is also equipped with a cool 64 GB of local hard drive storage, so huge that you can save movies, download all your best mp3 for music on the go while never worrying about deleting those auto download pictures and video from spamming colleagues on WhatsApp.The fast and furious 1.3 Octacore processor, will not freeze or give you the please wait sessions even when you take the smart-phone to real tasks.The X4 comes with a 3GB RAM to make sure that your applications are running smoothly.The X4 boasts a beastly 5020mAH battery. This translates to:50 days of standby.4 days of light-usage.2 and a half days of continuous talk-time.1 full day of continuous movie watching.20 hours of heavy internet usage.6 days of continuous music play.With Its reverse charging technology, one can use the device as a full functional power bank. The X4 can also work as your remote control for different appliances in your home.You do not need to worry about batteries running out in your remote control at home, just turn on the remote control feature on your X4 and enjoy the convenience. When it comes to security the X4 comes with a one touch finger print sensor, your important files are stored securely.Gtel Brand Manager Tanaka Muradzi said: Smart-phones have become an integral part of our lives, our work and our social life are both found in our phones therefore security is now the most important feature hence we made sure that this new device comes with added security. Gtel s Marketing Manager Rebecca Gambiza gave assurance that the gadget would not blow up like what other phablets are doing. We are aware that some other phablets are blowing up putting lives of users in danger but at Gtel we guarantee you that the X4 is safe to use she said.The new Gtel X4 will come housed in eye-catching colours which are space gray and gold.