Part of the crowd that attended the Jesus Healing Crusade led by Ghanaian preacher Evangelist Heward-Mills in the resort town of Victoria Falls.Victoria Falls Reporter THE ongoing Healing Jesus Campaign crusades continue to attract bumper crowds with thousands turning up for the occasion in Victoria Falls. The event coincided with the first rains in the resort town. Chinotimba Stadium was fully packed on Friday when the crusade started while on Saturday some people braved the rains to witness miracles in mud and wet weather.The crusade led by Ghanaian Evangelist Dag Heward-Mills drew Christians from different denominations in the resort town, Hwange and surrounding areas such as Monde, Sizinda, Jambezi and Chisuma. When the crusade ended after 11pm on Saturday, parking space was hard to get as buses brought more people from the suburbs who had stayed away earlier because of the rains.The evangelist said his mission was to draw Zimbabweans closer to God as he warned against unGodly world leaders and false prophets. Are you enjoying the beginning of the rains? Everywhere we go it rains. This is a sign of blessings showering the cities, he said. I want to thank the Zimbabwe Government, police and other churches for the support for this campaign. Anyone who helps the church is blessed while those who fight the church will be cursed.He added: I have been sent to invite you to bow to God and warn you about world leaders who don t fear God .Evangelist Heward-Mills named some countries in Europe and some leaders whom he said never thanked God when they were elected into office.Preaching and teaching at the two-day crusade focused largely on leadership, loyalty and the need to thank God for anything as well as how to escape the dimension of hell.Victoria Falls Mayor Councillor Sifiso Mpofu, who welcomed the crusaders said: Victoria Falls will never be the same again after receiving blessings. Pastor Barbara Murasiranwa, on behalf of Union for the Development of Apostolic Churches in Zimbabwe (Udaciza), said: We have been taught to work together as churches in the same manner buffaloes gather as a crowd. The miracle night saw some people giving testimonies that they have been healed from different ailments.Mrs Casey Mpofu (64) from Chinotimba said she regained her sight after being blind for five years while Mrs Jessy Maphosa (80) said she lost sight in 2011 and regained it on Saturday.From Victoria Falls the entourage heads to Beitbridge, before going to Gwanda, Zvishavane, Masvingo, Chitungwiza, Harare, Bindura, Marondera and finally, Mutare.