Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS team manager Richard Chihoro says the Glamour Boys will be aiming to finish the season on a strong note when they engage dethroned champions Chicken Inn in a battle for the top four spot at Rufaro this afternoon. The Harare giants want to revenge the 3-0 drubbing they suffered at the hands of the Gamecocks in the opening match of a doomed campaign.Chihoro yesterday said they have done their homework and are expecting a positive result in their last piece of action this year in front of their home supporters.Dynamos have had a disappointing season in which they failed to win silverware. In fact, this will be the second year of agony since 2014 when their domination stretching four successive years of winning the league championship under Callisto Pasuwa came to an end. It s a bad feeling that we are finishing with no silverware in our hands. Our aim now is to finish on fourth position. We are already occupying that slot if you look at the log table but then we don t have to relax because the team we are playing is also vying for that same position. So it means we have to win that match, we have to be at our best since Chicken Inn are not a small team. They have been doing well in their recent games. Mind you they were the defending champions. But our supporters should come in their numbers because we have to end this year on a high note. We have to do it for them in this particular game. At the end of the day we have to close this chapter on a promising note so that we will have somewhere to build on when we return next season. I am sure we will come back stronger next year, said Chihoro.DeMbare are currently sitting fourth with 46 points from 29 starts while Chicken Inn are just a rung down with 44 points in the bag. Chihoro said the 1-0 win away at Triangle in their last outing was a huge morale booster. With no injury worries in their camp, the technical team is expecting all players available for selection except midfielder Wisdom Mutasa who is suspended after picking up three yellow cards.Chicken Inn will also be without their leftback Divine Lunga through suspension. The Gamecocks arrived in Harare yesterday with their confidence high after winning their last three games on the trot.Their coach Rahman Gumbo is aware a top four finish will be a good consolation for his side as well. Chicken Inn gave away the title they won last year with Joey Antipas without a fight.With players such as Obadiah Tarumbwa, Clemence Matawu, Tafadzwa Kutinyu, George Majika, Darryl Nyandoro and Brian Juru, the visitors look to offer Dynamos a good fight. But there will be more to fight for when relegation-haunted Mutare City Rovers travel to Ngezi Platinum Stars this afternoon.Rovers are still praying that two teams will be relegated this year and unfortunately are occupying second place from bottom with chances they could overtake Tsholotsho who face championship contenders FC Platinum at Luveve this afternoon. Border Strikers, who were the first team to be relegated, will have their last supper in the Premiership when they host Sunday Chidzambwa s ZPC Kariba at Dulivhadzimu.Fixtures Today Dynamos v Chicken Inn (Rufaro), Highlanders v Hwange (Barbourfields), Chapungu v CAPS United (Ascot), Tsholotsho v FC Platinum (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Mutare City Rovers (Baobab), Border Strikers v ZPC Kariba (Dulivhadzimu).