Sarah MahokaWalter Nyamukondiwa: Chinhoyi BureauThe Zanu-PF Mashonaland West provincial Women s League executive has resolved to recall its treasurer Cde Sarah Mahoka from the national executive on a litany of allegations including causing divisions, abusing First Lady Dr Grace Mugabe s name and insulting Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa. The recall also came with recommendations for disciplinary action against Cde Mahoka on allegations of abusing Dr Mugabe s name in embezzling funds. Cde Mahoka, who is also Hurungwe East Member of Parliament, would allegedly give instructions to the provincial executive purporting that they were coming from the women s affairs secretary.Slightly over half of the 40-member executive gathered at the provincial headquarters in Chinhoyi on Wednesday where they resolved that Cde Mahoka was causing incoherence in the executive through proxies that would do her bidding.Cde Mahoka shocked everyone during a rally to celebrate President Mugabe s successful tenure as the African Union chairperson early this year when she challenged the Head of State and Government to announce if he had authorised his spokesperson Mr George Charamba to give an interview to ZiFM radio.She turned her guns on VP Mnangagwa challenging him to lay his cards on the table regarding succession debate before likening him to a duck by keeping quiet while people abused his name.This drew the ire of war veterans and other bodies who viewed her disregard of protocol and public etiquette as setting a bad precedence in the party. Provincial Women s League chairwomen Cde Angelina Muchemenyi said after the meeting the women resolved to recommend disciplinary action against Cde Mahoka. We sat as the provincial women s league and resolved that national member Cde Mahoka should be disciplined and recalled for causing divisions in the executive through her interference, she said. Because of her actions, we cannot continue working with her. We have listed allegations that we are going to forward to the national executive for disciplinary action. Cde Muchemenyi said the treasurer would influence some members of the executive not to attend meetings to sabotage deliberations. She also faces allegations of being the force being disturbances that occurred at the Women s League provincial inter-district meeting where political commissar Cde Chinjai Kambuzuma, nearly exchanged blows with her deputy Cde Abigail Gava.The fracas saw the provincial executive relegating Cde Kambuzuma and several other members to other positions outside the top five positions in the executive.A motion was moved to reinstate those elected after suspension of the Constance Shamu-led executive. Those holding positions were viewed as having been handpicked by former chairman Mr Temba Mliswa without exercising people s right to vote. The elections were, however, disregarded resulting in the status quo remaining.Cde Mary Phiri is now the vice chairwoman while Cde Angela Nyenyai is now the political commissar, Cde Martha Munondo (treasurer) and Cde Joyce Mukazhu is the secretary for administration, a position previously held by Cde Maggie Chidarikire.