Hardlife ZvirekwiPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter CAPS UNITED right-back Hardlife Zvirekwi believes they will lift the league championship at Ascot this afternoon. The match will be beamed live on SuperSport. We are playing the match for our coach (Lloyd Chitembwe), he played a pivotal role in my life, Edmore (Sibanda), Devon (Chafa), Joel (Ngodzo), Leonard (Tsipa) and a number of players who many thought were spent forces. He had a vision and it with us, we are going to give it our all for him tomorrow (today), for our director Farai (Jere) and our fans. I am relishing the moment I will lift the silverware. It is very important for me and the team. I am looking forward to the historic moment and everyone is geared up. We have had pressure from day one when we started playing in the 2016 league programme and the pressure will end after 90 minutes tomorrow. Zvirekwi believes the unity of purpose among players and the technical team has been the secret to their success. We are now a family at CAPS United and we can t let the moment slip through our hands. We have reached a stage where we do not want the coach to push us, but we just push ourselves, he said.Zvirekwi was referring to that moment two weeks ago when Chitembwe gave them a period to rest but the players organised themselves and arranged their own transport and trained in the B Arena at the giant stadium. I was impressed with the attitude. It was a positive attitude and it shows maturity. They trained as a team on their own and it shows that we are united and that the players are hungry for success and they want the cup, said Chitembwe. The spirit is very good and the oneness is absolutely out of this world. I attribute this to the amount of work put in by the players. I think they deserve to have all the recognition and all the praise because we have come a long way despite our challenges at the club. I am sure the players have to some extent proved that it s not really about the money but the desire to achieve and this is a great team for me. I will be happy for them if they win the league. I thank the Almighty God for what he has done to me, my players, my technical team and the CAPS United institution. God deserves the credit and he knows our destiny. 