Sulumani ChimbetuTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Dendera musician Suluman Chimbetu is ready to unleash a new offering titled Jamboree in Greendale on December 3. Jamboree can be defined as a large celebration or party, typically a lavish and boisterous one. The launch will be held on the same day he ties the knot with his wife, Linda Samuriwo. Chimbetu has managed to keep the momentum in the showbiz.His publicist Joel Nyamungoma said the name of the album Jamboree means it was time for celebration. The long wait is over and the new album is coming. We are now putting final touches, he said. The album will carry eight tracks though the camp was not willing to divulge if there were any collaborations. We will not say much for now but we have done our best to make our consumers happy. We engaged several guitarists to come and add their expertise on the project, he said.Some of the tracks on the album are Moses , Arasa Mwana and Mamonya . He has tried to sing several issues that affect the society. This album will definitely inspire a lot of people, he said.Nyamungoma said the song Arasa Mwana was based on a true story that happened in Gokwe. Like that song he started it while in Gokwe after the MC announced that a child had been reported missing. His songs are based on true stories, he said.Will the new album turn the waning fortunes of the Sean Timba hit maker? Yes we have been going through a lot now but you have to know that we are coming back with a bang, he said.A massive party has been lined up at Belgravia Sports Club celebrating the double achievement for the musician.Since the death of his father in 2005, Suluman left the Airforce of Zimbabwe to pursue music.His first album Ndomusiya Nani was well received by music lovers followed by yet another album Reverse Deal in 2009. Non-Stop managed to take the musician a step ahead. However, it was the album Syllabus that was a cut above the rest.With songs Sean Timba and Nhambarikoshoni Sulu became the darling of the corporate world, clinching several deals and awards in the process.His last album Gunship had songs that managed to keep the momentum.Sulu as the musician is affectionately known has been collaborating with several artistes on most of his albums.