Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter LEONARD Tsipa wants to turn back the hands of time by helping CAPS United win the league championship this year, but the veteran forward believes concentration will be key tomorrow when they host unpredictable newboys Ngezi Platinum at the National Sports Stadium. Makepekepe are standing on the verge of greatness and could be crowned champions tomorrow in the event they win against Ngezi Platinum Stars and then Highlanders beat their closest rivals in the race FC Platinum at Mandava.The Green Machine, however, are treating the game with caution.They lead the marathon with 57 points, two ahead of FC Platinum.Tsipa believes the newboys, who staged giant killing acts over Highlanders and FC Platinum to win the Chibuku Super Cup recently, should not be handled with kids gloves.CAPS United will be hoping to pick up the momentum from where they left off three weeks ago when the fixtures programme took a break to accommodate the Chibuku Super Cup finals and the national team s two international friendly matches against Zambia and Tanzania. We need to concentrate, especially in this game, because if we win I think we will win the league championship. So we are looking forward to a win against Ngezi Platinum, said Tsipa. We were training and playing friendly matches (during the break). I think the team is geared up for this game. It has been 11 years since CAPS United last won a league championship.Interestingly when Makepekepe won the first of their back-to-back titles in 2004 under Charles Mhlauri, Tsipa had a great season grabbing the Golden Boot with 18 goals.He may have lost most of the pace, but his technique this season has not let him down. With 11 goals in the bag, he is the current PSL top goal scorer followed by Hwange s Gift Mbweti who has banged the nets nine times.History may be repeating itself. When I was the top scorer in 2004 we won the league championship and I think we have to reclaim it this season. We need to win the league championship, he said. I think I am playing well this season. I need to keep on scoring so that it will help my team achieve our objectives. Definitely you need to score goals, but sometimes you don t score. But the other players can score as well. It s not all about me. I think each and every player on the field can score. But the thing is I am a striker and obviously it s good for me to score goals because that s my job as a striker. I believe hard work pays. I always do my extra training at home. Because of my age I need to work harder than these players. Some of the younger players probably don t do that, but on my side I need that extra because age is not on my side. The 34-year-old forward has since recovered from a recurring ankle injury which resulted in a premature substitution in their last game against Harare City at Rufaro.But, most importantly, he had scored the only goal of the match to earn the Harare giants maximum points.Tsipa, who had scored in another game at Border Strikers earlier last month, was rewarded with the Player of the Month award for October. It s an individual award, but in whatever we do the team comes first. I think we are doing well as a team. I was shocked when I was picked top player for the month of October, but the thing is if you do well in the field of play, you would be deserving it. CAPS United, however, continue to treat Ngezi Platinum Stars with respect.The teams drew 1-1 in the reverse leg, but Makepekepe feel they should have won that match if they had not conceded a last minute own goal.Ngezi have since beefed up their stocks by bringing former Dynamos players Partson Jaure, Walter Mukanga, Tichaona Mabvura, Byron Madzokere, Washington Pakamisa and Kelvin Bulaji who also once played for the Green Machine.On paper, they are a side rich in experience that also include their influential captain Liberty Chakoroma and former Harare City holding midfielder Edgar Tapera.Ngezi Platinum have been on the rise since the arrival of former Dynamos coach Tonderai Ndiraya and they come into this match with tails up after beating giants FC Platinum recently to win the Chibuku Super Cup in their maiden season.But Makepekepe have a proud home record as they have never lost a league match at the National Sports Stadium this year.This thought has helped stoke the morale in their camp.And the Green Machine expect their biggest crowd, this season, for the battle against Ngezi.FixturesToday: Tsholotsho v Bulawayo City (Luveve), Mutare City v Harare City (Sakubva), ZPC Kariba v How Mine (Nyamhunga)Tomorrow: Hwange v Chapungu (Colliery), Chicken Inn v Border Strikers (Luveve), Triangle v Dynamos (Gibbo), FC Platinum v Highlanders (Mandava), CAPS United v Ngezi Platinum Stars (NSS)