Tinashe Nyamushana Cool Lifestyle Writer&#8212;Hello teens, hello everyone. It s so cool to be back,after having some thrills and spills of exams. So the national exams are over and some teens are still in preparation for their end of year exams. Let me share with you a tip just do it simple but significant. A lot of candidates are asking themselves: so what s next after exams? Well, you do not have to worry about the next thing, just activate the teen mode and everything will be cool and fine.What is to be disciplined?Discipli ne by definition that is going against convince, to put yourself into inconvenience or to go against your thoughts. What affects most of us teens is not what we think about us but what we think about ourselves. Let me tell you you,whatever you do in life you have to discipline your thoughts in the right direction.You can never be someone who is great when you think small, you yourself you have to discipline your thoughts so that you be someone who is great.Mind what you allow yourself to think. If you do not control your mind you will experience difficulties in any area of life because you will be used by it,so transform your thoughts. When you transform your thinking, nothing becomes impossible.Be disciplined on what you do every moment that is discipline on time. A lot of teenagers spend their time on things which do not add value into their lives. Most of us, we spend our time on social media especially on WhatsApp. Social media is good for communication but when it comes to the teenagers I can call it WhatsApp squandering .We manipulate it to the extend that at some point we realise that we have lost time for transformation which is very wrong!Instead of doing something which is productive, evaluating our progress most of the teens are wasting precious time on things which are not adding value to their lives.Let me tell you guys this is indiscipline.Allow me to give you a cool insight that I researched about social media.Do you really know that those WhatsApp founders, Facebook founders and other social network leaders are disciplined fellas? They know what they re doing dazzle minds of people and making money through us.The moment we log in on their sites, someone is becoming rich. So teens, I advice you to open your mind and think. Be disciplined on social networks otherwise your time will be stolen.Be disciplined with your school work. One of the greatest enemy which I discovered in most of us teens is school work.Most teenagers wish to have chains of ladders on their slip results, but let me ask you: How can you have chains of ladders if you re not disciplined and committed to your school work?Be serious with school work, and never do what others do because you re not the same, you re different.If you do easy things and expect big things, then your life will be difficult. But if you do what is difficult your life will be easy.You have to do difficult things especially on school work, do things which you haven t done in your life for you to have good grades.In wrapping up the talk, change thoughts, transform your thinking, be disciplined, keep focus wherever you re. Until next time,BE DISCIPLINED!!!!!The writer is outgoing Upper sixth student at Dzivarasekwa 1 High School.