Prophetic Healing and Deliverance (PHD) Ministries leader Prophet Walter Magaya delivers a sermon at the Night of Turnaround 5 in Waterfalls, Harare, last Friday. (Picture by Innocent Makawa)Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter Prophetic Healing and Deliverance leader Prophet Walter Magaya has implored Government to walk the talk on its commitment to improve the ease of doing business amid indications that 120 visitors were denied visas to attend the church s crusade held at the weekend. In an interview with journalists on the sidelines of the church s crusade dubbed Night of Turnaround 5, at his Waterfalls base, Prophet Magaya said there was need to remove red tape and bureaucracy in Government systems to avoid unnecessary inconveniences.He was responding to a question on how he felt given a bumper crowd that attended the crusade in which the available space was clearly subdued. I am not happy although more than 90 to 120 of my visitors were denied visas. I do not know for what reason. But I am happy with those who managed to come. I strongly believe the issue of visas must be an easy thing. I did engage authorities but when I engaged them four of them were cleared while others were already out of time, said Prophet Magaya.Turning on his vision, Prophet Magaya said he planned to construct a university as part of efforts to improve education standards in addition to the plan to construct a $90 million church. The vision has increased. We have got another place bigger than this. It is no longer a $90 million one. We are no longer building a church only. We have started building a primary school, secondary school and a university. We have already started. So the vision is now bigger than just the $90 million church, said Prophet Magaya.Commenting on the bumper crowd coming from the length and breadth of not only the country but the continent, Prophet Magaya said he was mulling convening future crusades at bigger venues given the fact that the Waterfalls base could no longer accommodate the ever rising numbers.He said they were caught napping, because although they expected a bigger attendance; people who came had surpassed their expe- ctations. I was not expecting such a crowd. We are thinking of changing the venue and go to our farm. We have noticed that we made a mistake, next time we might change the venue and do it at our farm, said Prophet Magaya.Asked what motivated the bigger attendance, Prophet Magaya said: I think they know the truth. They have tested the power of God. They know it is real hence we have seen so many foreigners here. Several renowned clergymen, among them Prophet Paul Sanyangore of Victory World International and Prophet Sham Hungwe of House of Grace International Ministries attended the event. To my understanding it is support, it is not only them. There are more than 900 pastors, 50 prophets, 80 bishops. They are just recognising this movement which God is doing. It is an acknowledgement of what God is doing, he said.Asked on prospects of Zimbabwe s economy, Prophet Magaya expressed optimistic that the country would overcome challenges. We will be better. If we focus on the right thing, right policies, getting finished products, focus on proper agriculture and produce as much as we can. Our land, we have all the chances of doing better, we have minerals, we have the chances of getting better than any other country, he said.Prophet Magaya said he was optimistic that bond notes would ensure that the situation improved.