Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter&#8212;TRIANGLE United midfielder Munyaradzi Chiwara has signed a lucrative contract with global sports apparel manufacturer Puma as their brand ambassador in Zimbabwe. The former Zimbabwe youth international landed the deal through Triumph Athletic Group owned by former top local sprinter Fungai Matiza, who is now based in South Africa.Chiwara signed the memorandum of understanding at a function attended by Dynamos assistant coach Murape Murape and some junior DeMbare players at Heritage School in Harare yesterday.The attacking midfielder said he was happy for such an honour. I think this is a great honour and I am going to use this opportunity to improve my career. I promise to represent PUMA well here in Zimbabwe. This came as a big surprise as I never thought one day I could get this far. I started playing soccer at a tender age and it was my passion which saw me join DC Academy in 2009 where I stayed until 2011. After playing in Division One for DC Academy I then joined Gunners in the Premiership. That was my first professional contract in the topflight and a year later I went to DStv Rangers for one season in Division One. Chiwara, who seemed to have good working relationship with Moses Bambo Chunga when he coached him at Gunners, had to join Chiredzi which was promoted in the Eastern Region but, unfortunately, they could not last the distance and got relegated.The 23-year-old then settled for Triangle where he is now playing under David Yogi Mandigora.Matiza, who facilitated the deal, said he had confidence in Chiwara. We are aiming to put Zimbabwe sports on the world map and we know we have some facilities we lack, which are in Europe but I believe we are equally talented. It will be good for players like Munya to showcase their talent as someone who played for the national team at Under-17 and Under-20 level. We are working with a FIFA agent in the United Kingdom and as a Zimbabwean I just felt I should give opportunities to my fellow countrymen. The good thing is we are not only focusing on soccer but every other sport, Matiza said.Matiza, a former sprinter here in Zimbabwe, is now into sports management and has incorporated a number opf academies in other countries like SMN Academy in the Czech Republic as well as in South Africa where he looks after the affairs of several Zimbabwean athletes who are based there.He is also a career management advisor.He once helped middle and long-distance runner Givemore Mudzinganyama get a sponsorship deal with Asics and Cadence Nutrition.