Arsenal host arch-rivals Tottenham Hotspur at the Emirates on Sunday as Arsene Wenger looks to end the only remaining unbeaten record in the Premier League. Tottenham Hotspur, who are yet to win in their last four Premier League outings, will be eager to boost their title push and close the gap on their neighbours.We look back at five memorable North London derby encounters between the sides.TOTTENHAM 2-1 ARSENALApril 2010This fierce North London meeting saw Tottenham all but end Wenger s hopes of winning the Premier League title. A 30-yard wonder strike from Danny Rose in what was his full League debut sent Spurs on their way to victory over their north London rivals.Gareth Bale, who was experiencing something of a renaissance, ruthlessly exploited Arsenal s defence to score Spurs second of the afternoon. Heurelho Gomes, who had little to keep him occupied for over 80 minutes, pulled off three saves to keep out efforts from Robin van Persie and Sol Campbell.It was Nicklas Bendtner who eventually found the back of the net for Arsenal after tapping in substitute Theo Walcott s cross. The victory saw Spurs claim their first win over Arsenal in over a decade.TOTTENHAM 4-4 ARSENALOctober 2008Spurs had not won at Arsenal since 1993 and could only manage to earn a point albeit thrilling in this north London derby. Former Arsenal midfielder David Bentley scored a stunning volley from 40-yards to get Harry Redknapp s second game as Spurs boss off to a flying start after just 13 minutes.Mikael Silvestre put Arsenal level before the break as a flapping clearance from shot-stopper Heurelho Gomes gave the ex-Manchester United player his first goal for the club.William Gallas headed in a Robin van Persie free kick before Emmanuel Adebayor doubled the home side s lead. Goals from the Dutch international and Darren Bent set up a nervous finale for both camps.Jermaine Jenas curled in his effort with a minute left to play but Aaron Lennon s last-gasp equaliser ensured both sides took a share of the spoils.TOTTENHAM 4-5 ARSENALNovember 2004Moroccan central defender Nourredine Naybet opened the scoring for Tottenham on Martin Jol s first game in charge. What followed turned out to be a pulsating Arsenal victory at White Hart Lane.Thierry Henry netted the equaliser from close range shortly before half time and both sets of fans would admit to the defensive chaos that unfolded after the break.As a result of Paul Robinson s calamitous goalkeeping, Arsenal took the lead through a Lauren penalty. Patrick Vieira s goal on the hour mark looked to have put the game beyond their north London rivals.Jermain Defoe and Ledley King gave Spurs an unexpected lifeline until Freddie Ljungberg and Robert Pires added their names to the score sheet.Frederic Kanoute had Arsene Wenger on the edge of his seat for the final four minutes after capitalising on a rare Henry mistake to beat Jens Lehmann in the Arsenal goal.TOTTENHAM 3-1 ARSENAL(The FA Cup) April 1991Against all odds, Tottenham beat Arsenal in what was the first semifinal to be played at Wembley Stadium.Terry Venables side took the lead after just five minutes when Paul Gascoigne netted a free-kick from 35 yards with incredible power and accuracy. Although Gazza only played for an hour, he left the field to a standing ovation.It took just five minutes for Gary Lineker to double Spurs lead and although Arsenal s Alan Smith scored just before the break, Venables had all but secured a place in the final. Lineker scored Spurs third goal with less than 10 minutes remaining, setting up a showdown against Nottingham Forest in the final a month later. Looking back on his goal after the game Gazza said: Wasn t bad, was it? TOTTENHAM 0-1 ARSENALMay 1971This clash saw title-winning drama at its very best. Arsenal went into the game knowing that even a goalless draw would be enough to lift the silverware and pip Leeds United to end of season glory for the first time in 18 years.Still 0-0 with only two minutes remaining, manager Bertie Mee was well on the way to leading Arsenal to their first Double.It was more important for Arsenal to keep a clean sheet than it was for them to score in front of the 51 992 supporters that crammed into White Hart Lane, with thousands turned away at the turnstiles.A Ray Kennedy header hit the underside of the crossbar, and Arsenal secured their first title at White Hart Lane and the eighth championship title in the club s history. Reuters.