Grace Chingoma Senior Sports ReporterTHE match commissioner who supervised the ZIFA Eastern Region Division One match between Prime Rangers and Yadah Stars, which was abandoned in the 86th minute due to crowd trouble, has nailed the hosts for sparking the violence. The match was abandoned on October 29 when the home team protested the decision by the referee to award a late penalty to the visitors.There has been considerable undue influence from former Premiership side Buffaloes, and their backers, to try and manipulate the region s judgment on the abandoned match whose outcome could have a huge bearing in the outcome of the championship race.Buffaloes and Yadah Stars are locked in a fierce battle for the league title.The hosts disputed the call and their fans invaded the pitch with referee even claiming he was assaulted before he abandoned the match.And the match commissioner has now nailed Prime Rangers for their violent conduct. Prime Rangers players, captain (jersey number ten Mukono Tendai), jersey number nine Msimbu Sam, and jersey number two, Mazhambe Takunda, jersey number three, Chikaka Beaven and 16, Tafa Webster led their pack of teammates and charged towards the referee disputing his decision awarding Yadah a penalty kick, the report says. Police details saved the referee from further attack, being kicked as the confrontation ensued. Assistant coach Mudzamiri T, perpetrated further aggression against the referee by kicking him. That, in itself, incited the players to be rowdy. Beer was being sold in the stadium. Home team supporters wielding beer bottles cordoned part of the field of play close to the technical areas. I left my seat because of the unpredictable nature of the home team supporters who forced the visiting team technical staff to leave the designated technical area after throwing missiles at them and also soaking them with both beer and water. He noted that violence did not only erupt in the 86th minute but had flared earlier in the first half when the home team supporters rained missiles on the pitch over a throw-in decision that had gone against their team.The commissioner said a visiting team photographer, who was filming the match, was also assaulted. Two police details, to mention Constable Sithole, tried in vain to control the situation, there was back-up an addition of nine more Zimbabwe Republic Police officers, he wrote in his report. The Constable, in my presence, declared that from her experience the home team supporters had a reputation of violence. She also warned that if the match continued and ended with a result unfavourable to the home team the already tense situation could degenerate into more ugly scenes since home team supporters were threatening the referee s life. She also added that she feared the manpower she had might not have the capacity to contain the situation if it got worse. Constable Mavhu went on to consult her boss and she then reversed her earlier point of view and told the referee to continue as they could manage the situation. The referee, who was virtually shaken, abandoned the match citing lack of mental fitness to continue with the match especially after being (manhandled) in such fashion. Both teams were advised by the referee about the match s abandonment. Prime Rangers head coach Joseph Nhumwa tried to persuade the referee to have the penalty taken and have the match played to full time after being advised of the referee s decision to abandon the match. Total stoppage time was approximately 40 minutes. Match officials were escorted back to the changing room by police details. We left the premises at approximately 7pm after the police had ascertained that all supporters had dispersed and the situation was calm and safe. ZIFA Eastern Region Division One chairman Davison Muchena also said he treats all the clubs fairly by sticking to the rules and regulations and has urged football teams to remember that the game is not played on a battlefield.Muchena said allegations that they were biased towards Yadah Stars were unfounded. The verdict of the game in question is not even out. We will deliberate and issue a statement before the next game is played, said Muchena. As the chairman of the Region, I treat all my teams equally. To me, the best way of treating teams equally is to stick to the rules of the game without fear or favour. Our rules and regulations are very clear on how our football is run. They are in line with ZIFA, CAF and FIFA Statutes. We have to remember that football is a family game where each and every one can take his or her family to enjoy. Football is not a battlefield where the best fighter wins, actually it s just a sport. Therefore, to me, football must always be the ultimate winner, not anyone else. 