Moses ChungaTakudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter Harare City ..(0)(0) Triangle (2) (2) HARARE City coach Moses Chunga s experiment backfired with some supporters calling for his head after his team crashed to defeat at the hands of Triangle in the last game of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer league match at Rufaro yesterday. Chunga decided to use young and inexperienced players for the game, as he continues to look into the future, but they were no match for seasoned league veterans. The gaffer had to be escorted out of Rufaro as some fans waited for him at the VVIP gate chanting derogatory songs. They are always like that, when we win it s their win and when we lose its Bambo s loss. To me it is music when they make noise, said Chunga. We are trying to give the youngsters confidence and prepare for next season. There is always a starting point and this is an opportunity for the youngsters to play their part. We have been trying to build a strong team for next season and I believe with the support I have from the executive we will get there. Triangle had an upper hand throughout and they managed to take the lead at the half hour mark through Dzingai Charambamuriwo while Malvin Gaki added another one eight minutes later.Chunga was forced to make a triple substitution at half time by taking out Martin Vengesai, Sean Muneka and Tatenda Tumba and bringing in Raphael Manuvire, Edwin Madhanhanga and Jerry Chipangura. Triangle coach David Yogi Mandigora was pleased with the result and said it gives him a good foundation for next year. The guys played well as we desperately needed maximum points, we worked hard and the players played according to instructions, he said. I hope we will improve next season as most of the players were new and they have now adjusted. Teams Harare City: K. Shangiwa, H. Chapusha, H. Chimutimunzeve, T. Chimwemwe, R. Chitiyo, G. Kufandada, W. Manondo, S. Muneka (J. Chipangura 46th min), J. Tigere, T. Tumba (E. Madhanhanga 46th min), M Vengesai (R. Manuvire 46th min).Triangle: R. Mudimu, R. Kawondera, N. Menson, T. Huwa, k. Chigwida. G. Zhokinyu, M. Mukumba, D. Chirambamuriwo (P. Mhlanga 85th min), M. Gaki, S. Makoni (N. Ziwini 85th min), C. Mukanhairi (M. Machazani 77th min).