Paul Munyuki Sports CorrespondentThe Sables might have suffered their eighth straight defeat, but a hearty comeback from 0-14 to lose 15-19 against Russia yesterday showed the future could be bright for the Zimbabwe senior rugby side. With 30 minutes on the clock, Cypran Mandenge s charges were 0-14 down but added 15 points in their first game of the Regal Hostels Cup of Nations tournament in Hong Kong yesterday at King Park Stadium.All of Zimbabwe s points came from the boot of fly-half Lenience LT Tambwera with Russia adding only one try.The last time the two sides met was in the same competition exactly a year ago, Zimbabwe only managing a face-saving try after losing 5-50.Going into the break Zimbabwe were trailing 6-19 but in the second period the Sables put up a great defensive structure that was complimented by punishing Russia with the boot, adding nine more points to the board.Of course, there were a number of changes to the side that toured Hong Kong this month, the likes of Brian Makamure, Michael Passaportis, Andrew Rose and Tafadzwa Chitokwindo making a return after lengthy periods.Mandenge would like to once again prove that Zimbabwe is a serious rugby nation. The result and performance by the whole team shows that we are on the right track . . . we tried, said former Old Hararians and Germany-based winger Tafadzwa Chitokwindo. Just an indication that with enough training and adequate time to prepare we can become a better unit . . . this is a team sport and we need to be together as often as possible. I think the team just has a mixture of good players who have grown into the game . . . and that came in handy today (yesterday). And this is exactly what this tournament is as it will mark a new chapter for Zimbabwe rugby as they are set to play Poland for a series of matches in Zimbabwe next February.Zimbabwe take on Hong Kong on Tuesday before rounding up their campaign with a Papua New Guinea battle.Sables SquadTight Five: Denford Mutamangira, Mathew Mandioma, Brian Makamure, Witness Mandizha, Michael Passaportis,Loose Forwards: Biselele Tshamala, Andrew Rose, Njabulo NdlovuMidfield: Kuziva Kazembe, Lenience Tambwera, Riaan O Neil, Kudzai MashawiBack Three: Stephan Hunduza, Tafadzwa Chitokwindo, Lungile Tshuma.Replacements: Tolerence Zishe, Irvine Nduwa, Lawrence Cleminson, Tapfuma Parirenyatwa, Connor Pritchard, Joshua Gando, Tichafara Makwanya, Brad Ellse