Tawanda Matanhire Cool Lifestyle Reporter It s Reward Time! Yes, as most schools are holding their speech and prize giving days to mark the end of the academic year, it is indeed a time for celebration for some pupils who excelled this year. Ocean Waves Junior School held its first speech and prize giving day since its opening at the beginning of the year, which saw many of its students taking part in activities to make a successful day.Located a few kilometres off Harare-Bulawayo road from the Whitehouse turn off, the state of the art school prides itself with a remarkable infrastructure which is a delight to every parent who has brought their children to the school.The prize giving ceremony started off with the welcoming of parents and pupils as well as invited guests who included church pastors, school headmasters, community leaders and government personnel on arrival.The Grade 5 pupils led the opening prayer which was followed by sharing of the word of God. The event graduated into the introductions of several dignitaries who also attended to witness the first procession from the school.Grade ECD A and B gave their first presentations to the amusement of parents who marvelled at the work teachers are doing to improve the lives of their kids. This was followed by a marching procession of the Pathfinders who showcased some skills of their game.The Grades 3 and 4 then gave a good presentation called Mr I can t focusing on encouraging other pupils to take up challenges especially in regards to their school work which is the basis of their academic education.The school head girl Nyasha Katiriri then gave a remarkable speech before the 2017 prefect s inauguration which saw well behaved and intelligent pupils assuming the leading roles. The Grade Sixes were not to be left out as they delivered poems just before the usual Christmas play which was done by the Grade Ones. Clad in white attires the Grade 1 pupils did not disappoint as they gave a well-scripted play highlighting the birth of Jesus.Grade 2 pupils also took part as they dished out several encouraging quotes, which focused on the betterment of individuals pupils. The ECD s graduation then took place as the little ones received their certificates preparing their way into Grade 1 next year.Finally it was time for prize presentations. From ECD to Grade 6, pupils received their prizes for categories which included smartest girl or boy, most disciplined, most improved, best hand writing, best Shona reader and most helpful among others.In the academic categories on first positions went Davies Munzwembiri (Grade 1), Moreblessing Mutanguro (Grade 2), Vanessa Musonza (Grade 3), Tawonashe Bota (Grade 4), Rufaro Dambaremba (Grade 5) and Lucates Maduwa (Grade 6). They all walked away with prizes including books, trophies and shields among other gifts.Some of the prize winners expressed their happiness in coming up first in their studies. Am glad I am the best student in my class, I really worked hard and want to continue leading in my class, said Tawonashe Bota. I feel happy to come first this means I will have doing good and listening to my teachers, said Lucates Maduwa.After the prize-giving procession parents had the opportunity to tour the school premises getting an opportunity to see the school s computer lab which houses state-of-the-art apple computers and virtual learning facilities.