Kenny MubaiwaEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter&#8212;DYNAMOS president Kenny Mubaiwa says the Glamour Boys leadership is working round the clock to ensure they bounce back next year. The Harare giants, who last dominated the domestic league with an impressive run of four consecutive titles between 2011 and 2014, have had a miserable season and are set to finish empty-handed for the second year running after falling out of the championship race which is currently being controlled by rivals CAPS United. DeMbare also disappointed in the 16-team Chibuku Super Cup tournament with a first round exit at the hands of How Mine.However, Mubaiwa, who at one point threatened to quit the club over in-house wrangles, yesterday said they are looking to invest more into the team s success after mending their differences. Obviously everyone is not happy with what has happened this season. It s disappointing for a big club like Dynamos to finish without silverware. So that is what we are working on at the moment. Dynamos should return to the top where it belongs, so we are working round the clock; we are not sleeping, said Mubaiwa.Mubaiwa said they have made headway with contract negotiations with a host of key players whose contracts are set to expire at the end of the year.DeMbare need to tie down players like Tatenda Mukuruva, Stephen Alimenda, Ocean Mushure, Sydney Linyama and Godknows Murwira.The situation with Alimenda, however, remains uncertain as he has been skipping training of late. Our acting secretary-general Webster Marechera is handling the contracts issue, but what I can assure you is that we are going to retain most of the players that we had this season. We are also keeping the door open to new players because there are areas that definitely need beefing up. The fact that we want to bring back that glamour means we have to look for quality players, said Mubaiwa.Dynamos will travel to Triangle for their next league match this Sunday and they will face their own sons David Mandigora and Biggie Zuze who are now in charge of the Lowveld side.DeMbare believe the three-week break was beneficial since they needed to refocus.Defender Elisha Muroiwa who has been suffering from a recurring leg injury also recovered during the time off.Goalkeeper Mukuruva, who had missed the club s three games just before the break, has also mended from a knee injury he suffered at FC Platinum towards the end of September.The youthful goalkeeper even started for the national team when the Warriors hosted Zambia and Tanzania in international friendlies at the National Sports Stadium in the last two weeks.In his absence, former Young Warriors goalkeeper Tonderai Mateyaunga and Ashley Reyners had turns to keep the goal for Dynamos.DeMbare team manager Richard Chihoro said the Glamour Boys are in good spirits. I think we will return on Sunday with fresh minds and well-focused. Everyone wants to play and there is serious competition for places at training. We need this spirit and hopefully we will continue like that next season. It s painful we missed the league championship and the Chibuku Super Cup as well, but we are still looking to finish in the top four. We have to win our remaining two matches and the most encouraging thing is that we usually play well at Gibbo, said Chihoro.Dynamos are currently fourth on the log standings with 43 points, two better than dethroned Chicken Inn and ZPC Kariba, with as many games remaining in the season.FixturesSaturday: Tsholotsho v Bulawayo City (Luveve), Mutare City v Harare City (Sakubva), ZPC Kariba v How Mine (Nyamhunga)Sunday: Hwange v Chapungu (Colliery), Chicken Inn v Border Strikers (Luveve), Triangle v Dynamos (Gibbo), FC Platinum v Highlanders (Mandava), CAPS United v Ngezi Platinum Stars (NSS)