Samantha Chigogo Herald Correspondent&#8212;MOST parts of Zimbabwe are expected to receive thunderstorms and widespread rainfall activity throughout the week, the Meteorological Services Department has said. Manicaland, Mashonaland, Midlands and parts of Masvingo have since recorded notable heavy rains in the past few days.In a statement on Monday, the department said the country should brace for heavy rainfall activity. The wet weather is forecast to continue with heavier amounts in excess of 40mm in 24 hours expected in Matabeleland North, Midlands as well as Mashonaland West provinces on Tuesday 15 November, the department said. From today (Wednesday) onwards, there should be reduced thunderstorms and rainfall activity during the period, However, residual moisture will continue to cause some sporadic sharp passing showers and storms in the northern and eastern areas of the country, Midlands Province, all Mashonaland provinces including Harare Metropolitan as well as Manicaland Province. The department said a lot of rainfall of above 10mm had been recorded in several parts of the country. There was widespread thunderstorm activity across the country during the period November 8-12 with heavier rainfalls recorded in Manicaland Province, all Mashonaland provinces, parts of Midlands Province as well as some areas in Masvingo Province, MSD said. Notable amounts were 67mm at Harare International Airport, Mhondoro 570mm, Harare (Ashdown Park) 56mm, Kutsaga 55mm, Chisengu 42mm and 37mm (on the 9th and 10th), Harare (Belvedere) 39mm, Kezi 32mm, Buhera 28mm, Mvurwi 27mm, Henderson 26mm, Chibero 25mm, Chisumbanje 23mm, Nyanga 23mm, Mutare 23mm and 18mm (on the 8th and 10th) and Gweru 21mm, Kadoma 20mm, Karoi 19mm, Tsholotsho 18mm, Chinhoyi 17mm. The department, however, warned of weather hazards that come with heavy rains. There have been many weather related hazards throughout the country so far and the Meteorological Services Department will continue advising communities on the dangers associated with these storms, they said. This will be done through such platforms as the electronic (radio and television) media, including social media Facebook, Websites, Twitter and WhatsApp. The department also pledged to continue strengthening its public awareness programmes. As the rainfall season progresses there are attendant consequences of these weather events, for example, there will be times of forecasts of excessive rainfall, flash floods, tornadoes, lightning and mid-season droughts, MSD said. For such events, the department will issue Press statements and these statements will not only forecast imminent severe weather but also warning. The department also started issuing 10- day agro-meteorological and rainfall bulletins which cover province by province to promote public awareness to weather related phenomenons that should be continuously monitored.Zimbabwe is expected to receive normal to above normal rains during the 2016-17 rainfall season, with agriculture experts continuously urging farmers to plant with the first rains.