This picture collage (clockwise) shows Mr Marudu Nyoni (57), his son Motion (24) and the 19-year-old woman Locadia whom they are fighting over. The matter is set for arbitration before Chief Njelele s court in Gokwe Patriarchy issues at play He s too old for her: Son Matter before Chief NjeleleThe world over, love triangles are common, but for a 57-year-old Gokwe widower to find himself in one such love conundrum involving his biological son is too much of a heart-break. More devastating for the son too, who innocently took his wife-to-be for introductions to his father, only to realise that his soul-mate is related to his father s late second wife and is cited in a will as the supposed replacement wife to his father.Confused right?Yes, confusing and weird as it might sound, this is the traditional love triangle that a Gokwe man, Marudu Nyoni and his son Motion (21) and a teenage girl, Locadia Chuma, find themselves in.Interestingly, no one from the trio is to blame or can be held responsible for authoring this love jigsaw.Theirs is a matter of fate and pure coincidence, and a tragedy of patriarchy so to say.But, it is far from being God s case where there is no court of appeal.Nyoni, who has been looking forward to marrying the 19-year-old Locadia following the death of his wife four years ago, decided to take the matter before a traditional court for arbitration.Mr Marudu NyoniAnd today the matter is before a traditional leader.Father and son are at war, both declaring the girl is mine .Nyoni is seeking to snatch Locadia from Motion.On the other hand, Motion is adamant Locadia is his and that his father cannot hide behind a will to force marriage where there is no love! It s a funny and confusing scenario that I found myself in. I had to take the matter to the chief for arbitration. Motion is my son. I met his mother some years back, but we never married. I was later to marry but my wife passed away four years ago. She left a will and in that will she said I should marry her brother s daughter, narrated Nyoni. When Motion told me that he intends to marry, we both realised that the girl he intended to marry is related to my late wife and is actually the one my wife indicated I should marry in the will she left behind, said Nyoni.This is coincidental and definitely a love puzzle to have occurred between father and son.But, equally affected is Locadia, a victim of patriarchy.She is head over heels in love with Motion and plans to marry were at an advanced stage.But, between her and happiness stands her 57-year old father-in-law to-be, Nyoni, and her aunt s dying wish.Chief Njelele has to arbitrate.Mortion Nyoni in white golf t-shirtHe is supposed to make a ruling, whether to go by the deceased s will or to let the girl follow her heart.Equally in a fix is Motion, who is now based in South Africa and has been in Gokwe for the purposes of marrying Locadia before they relocate to his new base.He has to choose between Locadia and his father. I love my girlfriend and I had come here to marry her and go back to South Africa where I am working. I did not know that she was related to my deceased stepmother and am now confused. It s actually shocking and I really feel for her, said Motion.He said the fact that his father decided to take the matter to Chief Njelele was testimony that he was determined to have Locadia as his wife. Our matter is subject for arbitration at Chief Njelele s court next week and will keep my fingers crossed for the outcome, said the devastated looking Motion.He said he felt his father was not supposed to take the matter to the court and instead should have convened a meeting with his in-laws to discuss and review the will. Maybe it s because of generational difference. I thought my father was supposed to let us marry since my fianc is only 19-years-old and I am 24. He is in his late 50s and for him to marry a young girl like her is not fair. Nyoni said he was bound by his deceased wife s will and was prepared to marry Locadia. I could have remarried by now but my hands are tied by the will left behind by my deceased wife. My in-laws are aware of the will. They did not have any objections so I was still patiently waiting for Locadia to grow up. Unfortunately, my son saw her and they hooked up. He is not to blame either. It s not his fault, but we find ourselves in this. I had to take the matter to the chief and we remain guided by him, he said.He said Locadia s father was also late and no one from that family managed to give him direction. It s unfortunate that Locadia s family is not intact. Her father passed away sometime back and now there is no one to give us direction and this is why I thought taking the matter to the traditional court was the best way to solve this, he added.Nyoni also said he would not have problems in accepting Locadia as his daughter-in-law if the chief s court clears him.Locadia, however, said she was not prepared to abide by her aunt s wish to marry Nyoni. I can t marry someone I don t love. I love his son not him so even if the traditional court is to rule in his favour, I will not accept that. I feel for Motion, he has invested in our relationship and I stand by him, vowed Locadia.Chief Njelele, who admitted that the matter was a bit tricky, said he was still trying to relocate Locadia s close relatives so that they could work out how best to handle the matter. Yes, the will is there, Mr Nyoni feels he is entitled to marry Locadia in line with the deceased s wish, but things have changed. We are living in a modern world. We, however, have to convene a meeting and have the matter discussed before the court. We will advise you when we will deal with the matter at my court, Chief Njelele said. Zimpapers Syndication Services.