Tedious Manyepo Sports Reporter&#8212;SOCCER Coaches Union of Zimbabwe secretary-general Newsome Mutema has hailed the Sport Leaders Institute of Zimbabwe for the role they are playing in developing sport in the country. Speaking during the SLIZ annual summer camp in Nyanga over the weekend, Mutema said it was humbling to see an organisation going out of its way for the sake of sport development. The Sport Leaders Institute of Zimbabwe deserve credit in every respect. The organisation is playing a significant role in trying to see to it that sport progresses well in the country. The annual summer and winter camps, which have been held by the organisation over the past years, have already reaped rewards for the country as we are seeing a lot of developmental projects being spearheaded by sports leaders who have attended the camps. It is my hope that we continue to see development for the success of sport in the country. We have a lot of talent in the country but one thing for certain is we are not doing enough to tap onto the talent for our benefit. SLIZ has the answer to this if what has been happening over the years is anything to go by. By imparting leadership skills to the sport leaders especially those at grassroots level like school sports directors, I think SLIZ is doing what it takes for this country to be where it is supposed to be in terms of competitiveness. Mutema was one of the respected personalities who graced the SLIZ seminar which attracted over 300 delegates from across the country and the region.Zimbabwe senior national team doctor, Nicholas Munyonga, former ZBC general manager Robson Mhandu as well as Sport and Recreation Commission acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere delivered papers during the camp.Muchechetere said there was need to curb talent leakage through establishing community sports centers of excellence.He said the SRC have since put together some structures which should supervise sport development in every ward, district and province in the country.The seminar attracted both presenters and participants from regional countries like Tanzania, Zambia and Botswana. SLIZ director Russell Mhiribidi said his organisation was determined to take sport in the country to another level. Sport is one area I feel we are not taking seriously as a country. We need to pull together and see where we will be some few years down the line. We need to commercialise sport just the same way it is in Europe and some parts of America, said Mhiribidi.