Thandeka Moyo Bulawayo Bureau ZIMBABWEANS have the ability to work out solutions that will bring about economic development in their country despite the ongoing challenges, Thabo Mbeki Foundation (TMF) chief executive officer Mr Max Moqwana has said. Officiating at the Law Society Summer School in Nyanga last week, he said Zimbabwe urgently needed to start exporting to retain its economic stamina. I was very impressed by deliberations I had on Zimbabwe s constitution and its impact on ordinary people so far. I am convinced that if Zimbabweans could come up with such a powerful constitution, they can also unite and address the current economic problems, said Mr Moqwana. This country is full of creative, educated people with vast entrepreneurial skills thus there is no need to look to the West or anywhere else.Also read: Stop regime change, SA tells West West must not cut ties with Zimbabwe EDITORIAL COMMENT: Thabo Mbeki deserves honour Members of the public must take advantage of such programmes like the bilateral agreements that President Zuma has with President Mugabe and explore opportunities to revive their own economy. He said the TMF was all about instilling a sense of confidence in Africans so they realise the potential they have in creating a poverty and corruption-free continent. Zimbabweans only need credible leaders who can be trusted and soon the country will recover from the current challenges. The issue of bond notes should not leave everyone in extreme anxiety as long they have extreme confidence in their leaders. Mr Moqwana added that amid all the challenges facing Zimbabweans and other African countries, Africans must not give up on working towards the development of their continent. Our founder, former South African President Thabo Mbeki had Africa in mind when he set up the foundation. As long as we are alive we must pursue our dream of a prosperous Africa with no poverty, inequality and all that hinders development. The foundation was established in 2008 as non-profit organisation by its patron,Cde Mbeki, when he resigned as president of the Republic of South Africa.The central mission of the foundation is to enable and promote the achievement of Africa s renaissance.Africa s renaissance is a concept that African people and nations shall overcome the challenges confronting the continent and achieve cultural, scientific, and economic renewal.Mr Moqwana said the TMF vision was the rebirth of Africa and success in eradicating poverty, underdevelopment, reaffirm the dignity of Africans, build relations of friendship and peaceful cooperation among the peoples of Africa. We also stand for Africans including those in the Diaspora to achieve progress on the important challenge of gender equality and ensure that Africa takes her rightful place among the peoples of the world as an equal player in the universal effort to determine the future of our common globe, said Mr Moqwana.