Miranda Kerr pairs her dress with a lovely summer hat while Rihanna (right) dons a beanie for a night outTafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion Talk 263&#8212;One thing I like about fashion is the concept to always dress like you are going to see your worst enemy . Fashion is something that comes from within you. Zimbabwe is continuing to embrace the fashion world, and I must say well done.The rainy season has started and some are still struggling to catch up with what to wear and as per request after another article, many thought I did injustice on giving heads-up on fashion in the rain.It is true that rain can be an aspiring fashion lover s worst nightmare. Dull, shapeless outerwear, frizzy hair, and runny make-up may ruin your entire style.You can avoid becoming a rainy day disaster, however, simply by looking for waterproof clothing that flatters your figure and appeases your personality. The right hair care products and cosmetics can further transform your look for the better.Waterproof outerwear is a must. It does not have to be unfashionable. Select classy pieces to create a mature, sophisticated look, or try a few well-fit garments in playful colours to brighten up your rainy day style.Make sure you wear a fitted trench coat with a hood. The trench coat is a classic piece that works well for nearly any woman s wardrobe. A coat with a hood will provide you with added protection from the rain, but even a trench coat without a hood can work if you plan on carrying an umbrella. Consider a standard beige trench, a sophisticated burgundy trench, or a vibrant red trench, depending on your personality.Point of interest: look for a coat that flatters your figure.A double-breasted coat flatters many women, but women with larger busts should consider a single-breasted coat, instead. Additionally, belted coats look lovely on girls who want to define their waist and show of their curves.It would be myopic if we ignore ladies best friend this season the boots.Get a good pair of rain boots.Brightly coloured rubber boots can give off a childish vibe, especially if they are speckled in daisies, polka dots, or other loud prints. If you want to wear a coloured rain boot, opt for bold, solid colours over patterns.Alternatively, a rubber riding boot or a leather boot with a waterproof coating can give your look a sophisticated edge.Remember to avoid suede and other materials that can suffer water damage.Miranda Kerr pairs her dress with a lovely summer hat while Rihanna (right) dons a beanie for a night outDo not carry any bags in this material or wear any shoes made with this material.Unprotected leather can also get ruined in the rain.However, there is a heated debate in the fashion industry on hats, how should they be worn. I laughed my lungs myself last week at some fashion session in Harare were many discussing the, Who-What-When-Where of the Hat .Hats aren t the essential article of clothing they once were but are still worn by both sexes for fashion and for function. Knowing when to remove a hat is as important as wearing the right hat for the occasion.If you were a medieval knight who failed to remove his helmet or lift his visor and identify himself the consequences could be fatal. Throughout history hats identified social standing and removing a hat was a gesture of respect.In the old days men took off their hats in Christian churches, when they entered someone s home, when greeting a boss, and always in the presence of a lady.Ladies were entirely exempt from hat rules , wearing them whenever and where ever they wished.While some of these customs are now historical footnotes, even in today s casual culture men and women still remove their hats as a sign of respect. We just need to know that hats might be the only fashion accessory that men know more about than women. A hat can be that one accessory that sets you apart, whether you re at a formal event or you re just running some errands, said fashionista Trish Carmen.Here, is a quick guide on how to properly wear a hat for girls, since there are they are the ones with more excuses.Do purchase a leather baseball cap. Celebrity Selita Ebanks is one who understands that the sophisticated nature of the leather elevates the typical cap for more dressed-up items like dresses and boots.Do sport a beanie with a leather skirt, sneakers and bold lipstick. This style will keep the beanie from looking too lazy, and it makes her night time outfit look pulled-together.Do wear a woven hat with a good pair of worn-in jeans and a simple white blouse. This is a perfect summer spring daytime outfit.Do wear a casual woven hat with a flowy patterned sun-dress. If you re going to a picnic or an outdoor party, wear exactly that and you won t go wrong.So next week I will focus on gents and I part with you stating that, If the hat fits wear it .Happy weekend and enjoy the hats or rather let me take off my hat to salute you.