BUENOS AIRES. &#8211; Lionel Messi is leading an Argentina media boycott after the national soccer team took a stand in backing team-mate Ezequiel Lavezzi following accusations of drug use. Argentina s entire 23-man squad turned up to a post-match Press conference in the aftermath of their 3-0 win over Colombia in World Cup qualifying on Tuesday, with Messi calling for respect and announcing that no players would answer questions.The stance follows claims by an Argentine radio journalist, published on Twitter, that suggested team-mate Lavezzi had been caught smoking cannabis while on national team duty ahead of Tuesday night s game.Argentina s players have become increasingly frustrated with reports in their own media during the team s struggles in World Cup qualifying.Tuesday s victory was their first in five matches in the South American group and moved them up to fifth the play-off position for a place in Russia in 2018. Despite the relief of the occasion, the players refused to speak, with Messi leading their protest.Standing in front of the entire Argentina squad following the World Cup qualifier, Messi said the players would no longer speak to press following the controversy. We have made the decision not to talk to the press anymore, obviously you know why, the Argentina captain said. There were a lot of accusations, a lot of disrespect, and the accusations they made against Pocho (Lavezzi) are very serious. Messi, who scored a stunning free-kick goal and set up two others in Argentina s convincing win, said the team were happy to take genuine criticism of their performances as he explained the boycott. We know that most of you guys don t play that game of disrespect. We can be criticised if we lose, or win, or if we play well or badly. But this is getting into personal lives, Messi said. If we don t put a stop to it now, we ll never stop it. Lavezzi, who plays for Chinese side Hebei Fortune, was accused by an Argentine radio journalist on Twitter of smoking marijuana in the team s training camp. Lavezzi stood alongside Messi as he spoke on behalf of the squad. The row surrounds an allegation from reporter Gabriel Anello, who works for Argentine radio station Radio Mitre.Anello had tweeted: Lavezzi is left off the substitutes bench tomorrow because of the joint that was smoked last night in the camp? I m asking . . . just asking. Hebei China Fortune winger Lavezzi is set to take legal action against the journalist involved in what he calls: False statements against me and the serious damage that have generated to my family and in my work. The 31-year-old played no part in last Thursday s 3-0 defeat to Brazil and was left off the substitutes bench for Tuesday s match against Colombia.The entire squad walked out after Messi s brief message. The Barcelona star was back to his best on Tuesday night to inspire his country to victory in San Juan with a goal and two assists in the 3-0 win over Colombia. Messi calmed Argentina nerves with a brilliant free-kick 10 minutes in before setting up Lucas Pratto and Angel di Maria to revive their qualification hopes. Argentina overtook Tuesday night s opponents with their victory to move back into contention for the 2018 World Cup. With six games remaining and qualification set to resume in March of next year, Argentina are now in a position that would bring them a favourable qualifying play-off against a team from the Oceania region.They welcome Chile in March before an away game against Bolivia in the next round of international fixtures. &#8211; Sky Sports.