Robson Sharuko Senior Sports EditorALGERIA S Desert Foxes, one of the heavyweights the Warriors will battle at the 2017 Nations Cup finals in Gabon, have drafted one of European football s brightest teenage talents, Adam Ounas, into their squad as they continue to pluck stars from their France-based brigade. The 19-year-old attacking midfielder, who plays for French top-flight side Bordeaux, is one of the hottest young properties in European football today and was, in June this year, linked with a move to Manchester United although, in the end, the deal didn t materialise.He is the latest member of the players, born in France with Algerian roots, who have committed to play for the Desert Foxes transforming them into one of the best if not the best national football team on the continent.The Algerians will provide the opening test for the Warriors in Gabon before Callisto Pasuwa and his men take on Senegal and Tunisia in what is set to be a tough return to the Nations Cup finals after a 10-year absence from Africa s biggest football festival.Even though he has an array of some of the best attacking talent, in African football, Algeria s new coach Georges Leekens has decided to boost his arsenal, ahead of a World Cup qualifier against Nigeria next weekend, and the 2017 Nations Cup finals in Gabon with the addition of the highly-rated Ounas.Leekens named Ounas in his provisional 18-man squad yesterday, which include just one goalkeeper, with all but one player based in Europe, including three from the English Premiership the Leicester City duo of Riyad Mahrez and Islam Slimani and Watford forward Sofiane Feghouli while other players will be named in due course. What most stands out about Ounas is how comfortable he is in possession, French football expert, James Eastham, told English tabloid, Daily Mirror, amid the wave of speculation of his intended move to Manchester United. He s one of those players that appears to be born with the ball at his feet. So easy is he on the ball that he never has to look down. So sure is of his first touch he can use it to manoeuvre the ball into the position that suits him or to beat an opponent One of his stellar moments of his short career so far was the goal he scored against Reims in February 2016. It encapsulated so much that s great about him a well-timed run into the penalty area, perfect first touch and confident, clinical finish. Slight and sylphlike, he glides past opponents using wonderful technique and beautiful balance. You can see opponents backing off in order to avoid getting beaten too easily. If anything that gives Ounas more space to operate in. An excellent dribbler, he can beat players by drifting past them or through trickery. Great close control allied to balance, plus decent ability on his weaker right foot, means he can go both ways past an opponent. He played two matches for the French Under-20 national team before committing his international future to Algeria and was among the fans when the Desert Foxes drew 1-1 against Cameroon in their 2018 World Cup qualifier last month.World football governing body FIFA gave him the greenlight, recently, to play for Algeria.Tunisia, who are also set to take on the Warriors in Gabon, also have a France-born star, Sunderland forward Wahbi Khazri, who cost the Black Cats a cool 9million when he moved from French side Bordeaux last year and played a big role to help his new team, then under the guidance of Sam Allardyce, survive relegation.While Khazri thrived under Allardyce, he has struggled to impose himself since David Moyes took over with the Scottish manager appearing not to favour the Tunisian forward. The Tunisian wideman was flavour of the month with Sam Allardyce at the helm, but things have changed dramatically under David Moyes, the Sunderland Echo noted. And the remarkable turnaround in fortunes for the 9million man has got many fans wondering just what has gone wrong? A key player in Allardyce s side which avoided relegation, Khazri has found himself on the periphery under Moyes. At a time where the manager needs match-winners, you d think he d turn to the talents of the former Bordeaux man. But, as things stand, a starting role seems blocked. Khazri played two matches for the French Under-21 side in the 2013 Euro Under-21 Championship qualifiers against Romania and Slovakia and played one match for the French senior team against Italy before he changed allegiance to play for Tunisia.While the Warriors rivals are boosting their ranks, with players born in Europe, reports have emerged that some footballers born in England to Zimbabwean parents who have expressed their interest in playing for the Warriors in Gabon still face a number of hurdles to regularise their documents to enable them to feature for the national team.Burnley defender Tendayi Darikwa is one of the players who have reached out to the Warriors team management saying they want to play for the national team in Gabon if they can make the team.Darikwa was born in Nottingham to Zimbabwean parents who moved to settle in England and the footballer has never set foot in this country.He holds a British passport.Warriors team manager, Sharif Mussa, revealed recently that Darikwa has made enquiries about the possibility of playing for the Warriors in Gabon and committing his international future to them.Colchester forward Macauley Bonne, who is only 21, also wants to play for the Warriors having featured in a friendly international against Morocco in which he scored.He was born in Ipswich, England, and holds a British passport and, after being loaned out to Tranmere Rovers this season, he is back at his club.