Elita Chikwati: Senior ReporterThe Zimbabwe National Water Authority (ZINWA) has embarked on a $1,8 million programme to resuscitate over 1 200 non-functional boreholes across the country as part of its drought mitigatory response strategy. At least one borehole would be resuscitated per ward. ZINWA corporate communications and marketing manager, Mrs Marjorie Munyonga said this during a resuscitation of some of the boreholes last week in Goromonzi and Zvimba wards. As part of the exercise, where a non functional borehole has dried up, some drilling will be done to deepen it and improve its capacity. Most parts of the country did not receive adequate rainfall during the 2015-16 rain season due to El Nino which has also affected Southern Africa. The drought has resulted in depressed dam levels, threatening water availability for most towns. The water table is also dropping to levels as low as below 100 metres in areas such as Gokwe. The drought has also severely reduced water availability for other uses such as irrigation, she said.Meanwhile, the authority has deployed a water bowser at Mt Darwin growth point s water supply source since the Chesa Weir has dried up.The water tanker will ferry water from Dotito Water Supply station and supply tanks installed by ZINWA at Government offices, schools, residential areas and the hospital. The public will also get water from the tanks for their domestic use.The intervention has been put in place to improve the water and sanitation situation in Mt Darwin by ensuring water availability and reducing the time people spend searching for the commodity. The arrangement will remain in place until the completion of the water conveyance works ZINWA is currently carrying out in Mt Darwin. These works entail the construction of a pipeline drawing water from Ruya River to Mt Darwin.Trenching of the pipeline is complete and other required material is expected on site once all logistics are in place with completion expected by mid November. These drought response interventions follow successful similar exercises in Lupane, Mutawatawa, Kotwa, Zimunya, Chitakatira, Meleme, Esigodini and Guinea Fowl, she said.ZINWA appealed to the nation to use water sparingly and pay for the water they receive as such payments enable the authority to timely rehabilitate and maintain water infrastructure.