Jurgen KloppLONDON. Thirty goals, 10 different scorers. Liverpool have become the English Premier League soccer leaders who unselfishly share it around. Georginio Wijnaldum became the latest member of their fast-growing goalscoring group against Watford, joining Philippe Coutinho, Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane, James Milner, Adam Lallana, Emre Can, Dejan Lovren, Jordan Henderson and Joel Matip on their season-long scoresheet. They have twice as many goalscorers as at this stage of the last campaign: Jurgen Klopp s attacking style creating a team that can score from anywhere, through anyone. Eleven games in, their record of 10 scorers is a league high.Opponents find defending against Liverpool to be intense from all over and, hence, it has become near-impossible to blunt Klopp s side. Only Manchester United and Burnley have managed to hold them goalless so far.Of the XI that started against Watford on Sunday, Nathaniel Clyne and Lucas Leiva were the only outfield players without a Premier League goal this season.That statistic is unlikely to stand for long Klopp s attacking style effectively setting up his team to score from anywhere, through anyone. Wijnaldum took his turn on Sunday, others will get theirs soon.The shared aspect of Liverpool s goalscorer extends to the strong records of their leading forward-thinking lights, too.Coutinho, Firmino and Mane all have six goals in all competitions, Milner and Daniel Sturridge have four and Lallana has three. There are regular sources to rely on. Klopp spoke of his team s potential from all over the pitch earlier in the campaign, saying: I don t care, actually, who scores the goals. When the players make these movements, go these ways, they are in a (scoring) situation. The statistics tell a story of a team able to rely on each other and one that opponents will fear in all areas. It is a luxury Liverpool have not had for many years. The Luis Suarez-inspired nearly-men of 2013-14 only had five Premier League scorers at this stopping point, while other seasons across the past half-decade show similar records.Sure, defensive steel might be lacking but this is the most devastating attacking outfit in the country at the moment and the lack of reliance on individuals can only be a good thing as the campaign enters its winter months.While Chelsea would fear a prolonged absence of Diego Costa, Manchester City would miss Sergio Aguero and an injury to Alexis Sanchez would be a huge blow to Arsenal, Liverpool can take some comfort that the goals should still flow even if a member of their fluid frontline was to face a spell on the sidelines.The scoring has been so spread that it is almost forgotten that star striker Sturridge is yet to notch in the league; and the same can be said of Divock Origi.Both forwards are suffering something of a goal drought, at least in the Premier League, although that is easily forgotten when the pressure is taken off by your team-mates.The pair have netted in the EFL Cup, a competition that takes Liverpool s record to 13 goalscorers from 14 games in all, with Ragnar Klavan having also notched in the cup. The eventual English champions tend to boast threats from all over the pitch and, as it stands, the Reds fulfil that requirement better than any of their rivals.The potency and strength in depth of a team that put six past Watford with five different scorers, of course is as good as any Liverpool team seen in the Premier League era.Mane is a menace coming in off the flank, with consistency not seen in his time at Southampton. Firmino and Coutinho constantly look like goal threats too. Lallana and Henderson have proved excellent providers and scorers from midfield while Liverpool s defenders are also proving a threat at the other end.Klopp would prefer to dodge the comparisons with the past. For all the criticism of Liverpool as a club who focus too much on their history having not won the title in 26 years, he is looking in the opposite direction. In the past a lot of things happened here, the German coach said. I know what happened two or three years ago when it was really close, but this is not the team from two or three years ago, it is not the team from 25 years ago. We are completely new, this group is new. This new, happy-to-share group might just be able to find a way around the pitfalls that have held back Liverpool s unfulfilled title hopes of the last 27 years. Klopp s team are real contenders. Mailonline.