Razao Reason Herald Reporter&#8212;JUST weeks after winning the Norton National Assembly by-election, Mr Temba Mliswa on Tuesday told MDC-T leader Mr Morgan Tsvangirai to go to hell, accusing him of undermining him because of his (Mliswa s) increasing popularity . MDC-T, which has been boycotting by-elections in the wake of successive drubbings by zanu-pf, attributed Mr Mliswa s victory to its support, an assertion Mr Mliswa disputed by attributing his victory to zanu-pf s internecine fights.Mr Mliswa convened a Press conference in Harare, where he blasted Mr Tsvangirai saying he lacked statesmanship.Apparently, Mr Mliswa had invited Mr Tsvangirai for a solidarity rally after he won the Norton by-election and he was supposed to be the guest speaker but the MDC-T leader snubbed the event, to Mr Mliswa s chagrin. I have constantly supported the progressive movement. You cannot decide that Temba is becoming more popular so let us undermine him. You would have broken the contract of sincerity, said Mr Mliswa. I invited MDC-T president Mr Tsvangirai for the first time to come and mingle with everyone and I had believed that he will be leading and that we must create ground for him and he gave me the date of November 19th himself and I was supposed to have done the rally weeks before. Mr Mliswa said Mr Tsvangirai should not disrespect him because he too had people who believe in him. I had to take on to the platform and explain to the people that Tsvangirai is no longer coming, and in that spirit of anger I said yes Tsvangirai can go to hell. He said the MDC-T had also plotted to disrupt his rally by turning away people. To me you are not coming, at the same time you are plotting against people not to attend my rally. Go to hell. It is the most natural thing to do. He described Mr Tsvangirai as discourteous, insensitive, and unfair. Not one of them has dared to call me. I am disappointed in the man that I like and respect and he does this to me. I am a Member of Parliament at a thank you rally and you want the stadium to have no one and go on to say we made Temba, he said. I had given him the platform as he says he contributed so much and I had made him a guest of honour against all political party leaders who say to me but why are you always supporting Tsvangirai. Mr Mliswa vowed not to meet Mr Tsvangirai anytime soon. I am not ready to meet him. I am angry because that is betrayal of the highest order. Barely a month ago, Mr Mliswa would sing praises for Mr Tsvangirai and even suggested the MDC-T leader was worth the throne.