Hillary Makaya ( Pictures by Optimass Art )Swagga T&#8212;Beauty is not in the face but it is a light in the heart! The above statement summarises 18-year-old model Hillary Makaya who is set to represent the country at the Miss Teen Heritage World to be held in Sri Lanka next month. Makaya, who is on third position according to statistics today for the voting process of favourite teen beauty queen which will constitute 5 percent of overall marks, is on cloud nine for achieving this.Tanzanian teenager Ceccyler is leading while South African model Botlhale is second.The lanky model is set to leave for boot-camp on December 1 and the grand finale is scheduled to take place on December 10 at EastHam Town Hall.Makaya s star is definitely on the rise and justifiably so, since winning the title of Miss Interact Zimbabwe 2015, she has worked tirelessly to help empower and motivate other young girls through her determination, beauty and intelligence.In an interview with CLS, on Thursday, Makaya said preparations are at an advanced stage and she is ready for the show. I am ready and I promise to bring the crown back home. I started the preparations two months ago.The beaming beauty queen said modelling was her passion since she was young. I am happy that my designers Jasper Mandizera and Ngoni Motsi have already finished my garments. The designers have made two beautiful dresses that I would use for my finale on the ramp. The competition has about seven categories. Asked which, project she was going to present at the pageant she said she was working on a documentary centred on culture and heritage. I am doing a documentary focusing on our heritage and it is being shot on different locations with the help of author Nevanji Madanhire. I am going to market my country and show them how we live and survive, she said.The beaming beauty queen said modelling was her passion since she was young. I was born and raised in a family that understands and knows much about modelling. They know modelling can sustain livelihoods. My family consists of prominent names who have made it in modelling while others are in business. There is Moe Makaya, internationally acclaimed model based in the United Kingdom who is my cousin, while myrole model is my late aunt ConnieMakaya who became the first black Miss Rhodesia. I also look up to Rose and Catherine Makaya who are successful in their genres, she said.The High Achievers Coach Educational Centre student said she balances well her modelling and schooling. I am a bright student and when it comes to the two I make sure I put my books first. I do modelling during weekends. I was once signed to Top Model Management but, I am now freelancing because I have goals that I want to achieve, she said.Makaya has already decided on what she would like to do after school. I want to pursue a career in chartered accounting in Atlanta, United States because that is where most of my relatives who are doing accounting are. I love accounts too. I will also continue to grow myself in modelling and have projects that will help empower the youths and myself, because that will ensure the bright future for our country. Miss Teen Heritage is a beauty pageant set to present an exceptional and universal podium for every nation to present itself, its people, its cultures, environment, heritage, tourism, peculiarity and prospects for humanitarian initiative enterprises through young women/ heritage ambassadors.Let s keep voting for Makaya so that she has more points which will be added on her 5 percent marks to make it to the top.The voting website is http://www.pageantvote.net/pageants/615 and closes on November 30, 2016.CLS wishes Makaya the best of luck.