Tifney LentoorGodwin Muzari Arts Editor It will be like revisiting the scene where the video for Watora Mari collaboration was shot. Some months after shooting the video in South Africa, Jah Prayzah, Diamond Platnumz and South African model Tifney Lentoor who stars as main vixen on the video meet again for another delivery of the song. But this time their performance will not be preceded by the camera, lights, action directive. It will be time for freestyle on stage.On Watora Mari , Tifney is the vixen in the red dress who appears at the beginning of the video and features prominently throughout the track. Jah Prayzah and Diamond Platnumz share the stage at the Harare International Conference Centre on Friday and Tifney is coming to spice up the act.Local performers Killer T, Stunner, Ex-Q, Trevor D and Judgement will also perform at the event dubbed Watora Mari Concert . Speaking from South Africa last week Tifney said she was looking forward to the trip and shared the exciting moments as a vixen during the video shoot. It will be great to have time to celebrate the success of the video and spend time with the artistes away from the tight schedule they had when they were shooting Watora Mari . It will also be good to interact with fans that have been following the video since it was released, said Tifney.The 20-year-old model said she did not know the two musicians before the video and was excited to work with them. I met both of them on set for the first time. It was amazing working with them. They are professional as well as entertaining. It was a blast. She said she got involved on the video through MS Management, an agent that was tasked with providing models that participated in the video.A student at Pearson Institute in Johannesburg, Tifney has been a professional model for two years and has appeared on billboards and magazines promoting various products. In terms of music videos, she has featured on L-Tido s popular Bana Ba Kae and Hello by Laylizzy (featuring AKA).Although she is a fan of house, hip- hop, R n B and soul, Tifney takes any good role that comes her way. I began modelling after being scouted by a few people that got me to do photo shoots. I was working really hard to get to a point where I am recognised, taking every role available to get my art out there. I spend most of my time working on my portfolio, building my career. I also spend time on fitness exercises, getting myself into good health. I do fashion modelling for many local brands. Tifney says she admired Jah Prayzah s passion when they were doing the video and would love to work with him again. I admired the passion he has for his work. His effort evidently comes from his heart and it makes his music good. I am happy we will work together again when I come to Zimbabwe for the concert. It will be Tifney s first time in the country, but she says she has heard a lot about Zimbabwe and is looking forward to an eventful tour. I would like to visit the Victoria Falls. I have heard a lot about it. I know there are great models in Zimbabwe because I went to the same college with Rossana Hall (Miss Zim-SA 2015) here in South Africa. She is talented. Tifney takes the upcoming tour as one of exploits that will help in building her international portfolio as part of her dream to get attention beyond the South African scene. It will also solidify her relationship with Jah Prayzah and Diamond Platnumz that will be staging their first show together since they did the duet Watora Mari .Organisers of Watora Mari Concert said all is now in place for the show.