Your Excellency Comrade Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South Africa, Honourable Ministers here present, Senior Government Officials, Ladies and Gentlemen, Comrades and Friends. I am greatly pleased, on behalf of the Government and people of Zimbabwe, and on my own behalf, to welcome you, Comrade President and your delegation, to this very significant interaction between our two governments and countries.We meet today at the inaugural session of the Bi-National Commission between our two countries in fulfilment of the decision we took last year to elevate the mechanism for the promotion, co-ordination and monitoring extensive co-operation between our two countries.This close co-operation in the economic and political spheres is the best way for our countries to relate. Our relations demand that we work closely, in a manner that will make the Limpopo River, the physical colonial boundary imposed between us meaningless.Comrade President,The Bi-National Commission (BNC), this new highest level forum of regular engagement between us, reflects the dynamic and logical evolution of our already comprehensive bilateral co-operation. We have agreed and look forward to working closely together as strategic partners, in defending our sovereignty and independence, in fostering economic development, in promoting and maintaining peace and security in our countries and in the regions. Comrade President, we need each other, even more as we face renewed assaults on our independence and sovereignty.Comrade President,Since 1995, when our two countries signed the Agreement that established the Joint Commission for Co-operation in the economic, technical, scientific and cultural fields, we have recorded some progress in our bilateral co-operation. However, we still have a number of key programmes that remain outstanding.I would like the BNC, as the successor to the Joint Commission, to attend to these items of unfinished business as a matter of urgency. A major priority among these is to ensure the optimal operation of the Beitbridge border, through the establishment of a One-Stop Border-Post at this key bilateral and regional transit point.While in 2009, we agreed to establish a One-Stop-Border-Post at Beitbridge, to date this important agreement is still gathering dust on the shelves. This session of the BNC must agree on a road map for the implementation of that decision.Comrade President,Our two countries and others in Southern Africa and beyond, are experiencing a devastating drought. I wish, at this point, to thank you very much for the co-operation and support we have received from South Africa in the importation of grain for distribution to the needy in our country.The frequency, the severity and impact of the recurrent droughts on our countries and in our region, demand that we co-ordinate our response to climate change. Such co-ordinated efforts should not just be responsive, but must be anticipatory and mitigatory.Comrade President,It is regrettable that the Business Forum, involving business representatives from Zimbabwe and South Africa was due to some logistical problems, not held as part of the programme of this inaugural session of the BNC. That notwithstanding, the Business Forum should become and integral feature of our BNC sessions in future.We want to encourage our business persons to look beyond exchanges of goods and services. The empowerment programmes we are implementing in our respective countries, have graduated a new class of businesspersons who should be empowered for the national and regional market.Your Excellency, Distinguished Guests,Our thrust towards industrialisation through value-addition and beneficiation of available natural resources, offers vast opportunities for joint ventures and investment partnerships. I want to assure South African business people that their investments are safe here in Zimbabwe. We wish to see more South African investments here, as much as we wish to see more Zimbabwean investment in South Africa.Let us therefore work together to improve the flow of investments in both directions, in a manner that reinforces the strategic partnerships between us. A strong, vibrant, industrialising Zimbabwe, makes for a better economic partner for South Africa.Comrade President,Let me once again welcome you and your esteemed delegation to Zimbabwe, your natural home! I look forward to productive deliberations with you this morning.Siyabonga!Tatenda!Thank you!