Diamond PlatinumzArts Reporter &#8212; Tanzanian musician Diamond Platnumz is expected in the country tonight ahead of Watora Mari Concert set for Harare International Conference Centre on Friday. The musician jets into Harare with his 15-member entourage towards midnight and tomorrow he goes for a meet the fans tour in the capital as the countdown to the concert continues.Diamond Platnumz will share the stage with Jah Prayzah and a number of many other local acts that include Killer T, Stunner, Ex-Q and Judgement Yard.South African model Tifney Lentoor, who features on Watora Mari video, will also grace the event and is expected to join Jah Prayzah and Diamond Platnumz on stage when they perform their duet.The two musicians are expected to do some rehearsals together in order to present a solid act beyond Watora Mari duet.Jah Prayzah s manager Keen Mushapaidze said they will present a memorable joint act that would be spiced up with some surprises. We will definitely have a good time on stage with Diamond. People are looking forward to a joint performance of Watora Mari , but our act will go beyond that. We have planned something big and fans should come geared up for some surprises, said Mushapaidze. Diamond is arriving two days before the show so that they perfect their acts. The two musicians have been consistently communicating over the past weeks in preparation for the show. They are meeting for final touches of the performance. Organisers of the show said they are happy with preparations, adding it would be good to have Diamond Platnumz in the country early so that he sets the tone for the show. He is coming with his full band because this will be a special show for him. He will be performing in the country for the first time and he has to make a huge mark and win hearts of local followers. He has collaborated with many big names on the continent and he has what it takes to shake the stage, said one of the organisers. We thought of bringing SA model Tifney to make the event exciting. It completes the collaboration on the video and we are looking forward to a memorable event. We have done everything and we are now awaiting Diamond s arrival before everything falls into place. In a recent interview Tifney expressed excitement in being part of the concert while local supporting acts all said they are ready to challenge the big names on stage.