A pair of funky tights and rain boots can make a simple dress more interestingFrequent rain gives us many reasons to hate the coming months floods, flu, and your pretty new shoes ruined. Many of us, especially those who aren t hindered by a dress code at work, tend to go for the quick-fix get-up that is more a testament to laziness than a fashion statement. But don t let this kind of weather dampen your style spirit. If anything, you should be inspired to level up that wardrobe.Whether your rainy day wardrobe consists of stylish outfits or pragmatic waterproof wear, there are five things it should not go without.Knitwear is a chic way to protect yourself from the cold and the rain.1. Wear layers including jackets and scarves to stay warm and keep cool.Scarves, tights and even leather jackets (go for faux as genuine leather does not deal well with water) are kind of perfect for a storm. Knitwear too is a great option. Knitted pieces add a dash of homey chic that is feminine and relaxed, plus they re on trend this season.One thing you should note, though, is with the strong winds blowing the heavy rains in every direction, it s unlikely any part of you will actually stay dry once you step out. That is why you need a good cover-up, like a windbreaker or the more stylish trench coat.2. Trench or get drenched.Yes, trench coats can look a bit costumey given people don t usually wear them in tropical climates, but you d be surprised as to how practical they actually are.Trench coats are long enough to cover your entire outfit and as events manager and fashion blogger Jey Amurao says, it s kinda waterproof and it matches any footwear and looks good enough whether over a jeans or dress or skirt .You can wear pretty much anything you want under it, maybe cinch it with a pretty little belt (otherwise the straight silhouette tends to look very chic on its own, especially when paired with bootie wedges) and you re solved.Now if you re still reluctant to attempt a full-on trench coat, you can always go with a subtler cover-up like a jacket or blazer. Many stylish cover-ups are made from synthetic materials like PVC which are semi waterproof. Additionally, the artificial material can make a very edgy statement with its plastic-like sheen.3. Short bottoms, high shoes.No one likes the icky sticky feeling of damp fabric against their legs, which is why many of us opt to wear shorts on a rainy day a casual pair of cotton shorts need not look underdressed if you pair it with the right pieces. Remember those cover-ups we mentioned earlier? One such cover-up like a well-tailored blazer can do the trick. I prefer dressing down than actually wearing clothes which prevent one from getting wet because inevitably, I would get wet anyway, says law student Kelsey Mendoza, who wears shorts with a jacket on casual days.When she has to follow her school s dress code, she wears a skirt and a polo plus a blazer and heels . . . so that the water won t get to my feet .Pair your short skirt, dress or shorts with a pair of high shoes (heels to keep your feet out of the puddles or boots to protect your ankles) and you ll be as dry as you can get. I love my short black boots. They re comfy, and they go with practically any clothing that I usually wear. Even with dresses, says graphic artist Mica Annunciation who looks to her footwear to complete the outfit.4. Go bright on dark days.The gloomy weather and palette of blues and grays in the sky is the sort you can either embrace or counter. If you re feeling vampy, you can stock up on those all-black, all-gray, all-blue ensembles which match the weather perfectly.Mirma Tica wears a bright knit dress and fun printed scarf to counter the gloomy weather.A contrastingly bright bag or accessory like a scarf makes a great statement against an all-dark outfit. Try red or orange or even electric blue and neon pink.The opposite reaction to the dim colours outdoors is to go bright. Bold colours like the earlier mentioned red and orange or yellow and pink can perk up any stormy background. I personally like to wear vibrant colours like yellow, fuchsia, green or anything based on the warm or summery colour pallet. I do this to counter the gloomy feeling. I also love warm pashminas and my favourite Plueys rain boots, says Mirma Tica, peace advocate from Malabon.5. Waterproof everything!Most important of all, make sure everything you wear is waterproof, or wettable .The last thing you need amidst the storm and stress is to end up looking the part with runny eye-liner or a pair of broken shoes. In this weather, taking care or your things means taking care of yourself too. Putting together a good outfit on a rainy day can be a bit of a chore, but if you have these five essentials in check, you can hardly go wrong. Gmanetwork.