Tawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent &#8212; Playwright, actor and theatre director Cont Mhlanga, who visited Chitungwiza Arts Centre over the weekend, has challenged arts authorities to give their maximum support to arts institutions. Mhlanga was in the company of National Arts Council of Zimbabwe director Elvas Mari and Amagugu Cultural Centre director Pathisa Nyathi. The outspoken artiste said organisations like the Culture Fund of Zimbabwe and NACZ should give maximum support to arts institutions to promote their growth.Mhlanga said he was impressed by the work of the artistes at the centre and urged responsible arts authorities to rally behind them. The creative sector should be highly recognised in the country because it employs a number of people. It is high time we have to recognise the work of the artistes, he said.Mhlanga said he was impressed by the work of the artistes at the centre. I have never been here but I am happy that there is great work that needs to be marketed out there, he said.He also challenged the arts centre to have banners along Chitungwiza Road from the city, to improve its visibility in the market. I did not come across any sign or billboard to tell us about this institution from the city. Is it a bogus organisation? You need to brand this centre in a way that people appreciate you, he said.Nyathi said the centre was critical for the preservation of Zimbabwean culture and heritage.Speaking on the same occasion, Mari applauded the presence of the highly acclaimed artistes at the centre, a development which would motivate aspiring and established artists to excel. I personally invited them to come and see the works of the artistes here. This is cross fertilisation of ideas which is very health for our sector, he said.He said the exchange of cultural ideas was key in the development of the sector. There is nothing wrong for him to take some of the products from this centre to his place as a way of marketing them. I am happy that the two have been impressed by the work done here and they will also spread the message, he said.Taurai Tigere arts centre director said it was a great opportunity to have such great artistes at the centre. It shows we are doing our best to push the brand thanks to Mr Mari and his team. They have come at a time we are hosting an exhibition at the centre, he said.Meanwhile the arts centre last Friday officially opened the exhibition The Journey with Bruce Chiyangwa being the guest of honour.