Cde ChomboFelex Share Senior Reporter The Zanu-PF Politburo meets in Harare today with discussions expected to centre on preparations for the party s 16th Annual National People s Conference slated for Masvingo next month. Also expected to take centre stage is the just-ended Norton by-election where the revolutionary party s Cde Ronald Chindedza lost to an independent candidate, Mr Temba Mliswa.Zanu-PF secretary for Administration Cde Ignatius Chombo yesterday said: The Politburo is meeting tomorrow (today) and all members should attend and be seated by 10am. The agenda of the meeting is for the members first and the media will only be apprised on the deliberations after the meeting. President Mugabe has attributed the Norton loss to the imposition of Cde Chindedza by the commissariat department led by national commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere.The Zanu-PF First Secretary said Cde Chindedza had a dirty past and was not popular with the Norton populace.An internal audio clip of party members leaked to the media revealed that dirty money exchanged hands to inflate votes in favour of Cde Chindedza who had only polled seven votes in the party s primary elections.Cde Chindedza s results were reportedly cooked and he ended up having 257 votes.One of the people speaking in the clip is believed to be Cde Robert Kahanana, the Zanu-PF Harare deputy provincial chair.Cde Kahanana, who did not deny the authenticity of the audio clip, has been receiving threats since confirming the shenanigans to the media.Said a source: At the heart of the party is preparations for the forthcoming conference. The party needs to know where we are are in terms of logistics such as fund-raising and the challenges, if any, such that we have a resounding gathering. Also not to be left out is the Norton by-election because we have other pending by-elections coming in Chimanimani West and Bikita West. The President has spoken strongly against what happened in Norton and the party has to avoid a repeat of that. The source said the forthcoming agricultural season would be discussed, principally the distribution of inputs which is currently underway. Economic issues, as has become the norm in every meeting, will be tackled, said the source. We also have pending disciplinary cases and expect them to be tabled. The National Disciplinary Committee and the Disciplinary Review Appeals Committee of the Central Committee will table their reports and progress made so far on all outstanding cases. Everyone expects that the committees met since the last Politburo and we expect the findings. The Disciplinary Review Appeals Committee of the Central Committee still has more than 20 cases to review and a determination is expected on them.The outcome of cases of the three provincial chairpersons &#8211; Cdes Joel Biggie Matiza (Mashonaland East), Ezra Chadzamira (Masvingo) and Kizito Chivamba (Midlands) &#8211; is yet to be announced.