MADRID. Cristiano Ronaldo has won Marca s Alfredo di Stefano award for the best player in La Liga for the 2015-16 season and he collected the trophy on the day he penned a new five year, 365,000-a-week deal at Real Madrid. Ronaldo netted 35 goals and provided 11 assists for Madrid in the Spanish division last season as his side finished second to Barcelona.He also netted 16 times in the Champions League on the way to lifting the trophy for the third time in his career and the second with Madrid, before going on to help Portugal to glory at Euro 2016 in France in the summer. The 2015-16 season was filled with many emotions with the Champions League and the European Championship, Ronaldo told the audience upon being presented the award at the Florida Retiro in Madrid. Today has also been a very special day with my contract renewal and a prize from MARCA. What else I can ask for? I m very happy. This motivates me to keep working and get better in the next few years. The 31-year-old also took the opportunity to underline his ambition of cementing Madrid s place at the summit of La Liga as they look to reclaim the Spanish league from fierce rivals Barcelona. Madrid currently lead the way with 27 points from 11 matches. They are undefeated so far and have a two point lead over Barcelona. It s as competitive as expected, but this is not a sprint, it s a marathon and we are going to fight, Ronaldo said. As always, God will help whoever works hardest. Ronaldo s Madrid team-mate Alvaro Morata was also honoured by Marca. He was named the best player for the Spanish national team in 2015-16.He scored three times at Euro 2016 but was ultimately unable to stop Spain surrendering the title they had won in 2008 and 2012. The 24-year-old was quick to reference Ronaldo s influence upon him at Madrid after returning to the Spanish side following two years in Italy with Juventus. It s all about winning titles, Morata said. When I went to football with my family I imagined playing in the Santiago Bernabeu, I owe my life to them. Real have started very well this year and I hope that when it finishes I am near Ronaldo s goal tally. This is one of the best teams in the world and every minute on the pitch is golden. I ve no choice but to fight for that everyday with my club and my country. Luis Suarez, the only man to outscore Ronaldo in La Liga in 2015-16, was awarded the Pichichi trophy for his effort of 40 goals, which propelled Barcelona to league glory.The former Liverpool striker was unable to attend the ceremony due to international commitments with Uruguay but a video was shown of him receiving the honour. He was the only Barcelona star honoured by the famously pro-Madrid paper, despite Lionel Messi and Co winning the Spanish title last season.Elsewhere, there were two awards for Atletico Madrid after they finished as runners-up in the Champions League and third in La Liga in the last campaign.Boss Diego Simeone received the Miguel Munoz Coach of the Year prize, while goalkeeper Jan Oblak took the Zamora trophy for conceding the lowest number of goals. Mailonline.