Mr MushoreInnocent Ruwende Municipal Reporter&#8212; Former NMBZ chief executive Mr James Mushore, who was appointed Harare town clerk before being sent on forced leave after Government rescinded his appointment, has written to council demanding over $70 000 in salaries and benefits. Government rescinded Mr Mushore s appointment in April. This followed a council meeting announcing his appointment. Government argued that council had flouted appointment procedures as outlined in the Urban Councils Act and the Local Government Board.According to the law, council was supposed to submit three candidates to the Local Government Board for approval. Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Saviour Kasukuwere told council that the former banker s appointment was illegal.Sources at Town House said Mr Mushore through his lawyers Gill, Godlonton and Gerrans wrote to the city demanding payment since he was sent on forced leave. Harare Mayor Councillor Bernard Manyenyeni yesterday confirmed receipt of the demand. I can confirm they have written a letter demanding that we pay him his outstanding salaries and benefits, but we have not actioned. Clr Manyenyeni said they could not act on his demand as there were pending issues at the High Court concerning his employment. According to the contract signed by Mr Mushore in April, he was entitled to $10 475 monthly salary. On his suspension, Mr Mushore remarked that this was a confirmation of employment by council. Asking me to go on leave recognises my employment. They recognise that I have a contract, then asking me to go on leave I hope they have proper reasons because we must proceed in a lawful manner. Once I receive communication from them, then I will know my position, he said. It seems there are certain people who do not want things fixed. Harare is for all Zimbabweans regardless of their political persuasion. I am bewildered and disappointed that there are people out there who do not want to see progress and considering that councillors represent the people of Harare, I find that disappointing, he said.Mr Mushore then approached the High Court after Acting Mayor Chris Mbanga locked him out of his office. Although the High Court dismissed his application with costs, it ruled that Mr Mushore was entitled to a salary and benefits.In his application, Mr Mushore had argued that council s conduct of locking up his office and stopping him from reporting for duty was unlawful. He wanted the court to intervene and restore his employment rightsClr Mbanga had locked Mr Mushore s office insisting that the former NMBZ Holdings group chief executive officer was suspended from work pending the finalisation of his case.