Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis&#8212;In athletics, there is a race called relay in which four people work together, passing the baton from one runner to the other with the ultimate objective of corporate winning. Just like in this race, spiritual things are also handed over from one person to another. Spiritual handing over of the baton is called impartation. Moses endured 40 years of difficulty in the wilderness trying his best to lead the people of Israel who were generally stubborn. However, despite all his sufferings, Moses did not enter Canaan, the Promised Land. Moses handed the baton to Joshua. Moses imparted leadership skills to Joshua and thus he competently led the people into Canaan.A prominent case of impartation in the Bible relates to Elijah and Elisha. In 1 Kings 19: 19-21 we see Elijah going to a ploughboy, Elisha, and cast his mantle on him.Elisha was just an ordinary boy, but he surprised people by his subsequent decision and actions. He immediately slaughtered his oxen, cooked the meat and gave it to people to eat. Thereafter, he started to follow Elijah.Elijah transferred some spiritual elements to Elisha through the mantle, which totally changed his perspective of things. Elisha s focus was totally changed.These days, the impartation might not be through the jacket or mantle, but when the Holy Spirit hits you, your perspective of the world, aspirations and focus change.Elisha eliminated possessions as he had to demonstrate that he was focusing on things that do not require those things. To a worldly eye, it appears foolish to destroy what you have and devote your time to the spiritual things, but what Elisha accomplished in the Kingdom of God cannot be compared to the few oxen he killed.I know when people come to church or when they meet a man of God, they always want to be delivered or healed. This is okay, but after healing, spiritually they remain the same.However, impartation takes you to a higher level. Impartation transfers the gifts/ brings enablement that transforms your life and your family. From experience, I can safely say that there is nothing as valuable as impartation when it comes to spiritual matters.If you read the Bible carefully, you will notice that Elisha actually performed more miracles than Elijah. Just before his translation, Elijah used his mantle to divide River Jordan so that he could pass through. Interestingly, soon after the translation of Elijah, Elisha also went to River Jordan and performed the same miracle, with that mantle that Elijah had left.Impartation is a powerful tool that will enable you to rise above your peers and friends. It brings excellence and distinctiveness. It brings supernatural enablement.Impartation is more valuable than money, houses, etc. It provides the means to do and/or acquire many things. With impartation, you positively impact many lives.In my life, through grace, I have done many things that I wish my sons and daughters in the LORD ought to inherit. I remember one day when I was driving a Ford Consul, it ran out of fuel. My friend looked at the dashboard and noticed that it was red and started to panic because we still had a long way to our destination. It was in the evening, and we were in a remote place where there was no fuelling points.I continued to drive the car until we reached our destination, but from a physical point of view there was no way I could cover the distance the car covered with an empty tank. Right now, I always pray to God to impart such faith in people, so that they can come out from impossible situations.I thank God that he gave me many gifts, such as preaching, healing and deliverance. These are wonderful gifts that I want to impart to my sons and daughters, but I have realised that people don t always identify and desire something greater than those. In my life I built several church buildings, with very little resources and often with a few people. My wish is to impart this to people so that they are able to do great things without money or with little resources they have. I know that if someone is imparted with such a gift, he and his family can even build a church building on their own.What I want to emphasise is that though the impartation of Elisha started when he was struck with the mantle, he spent 14 years with Elijah before he could do things independently. Elisha always desired the anointing that was upon Elijah, that s why when Elijah asked him what he wanted before he is taken away, he requested a double portion of the Spirit of God, which was upon Elijah. Just like Elisha with Elijah, Joshua spent several years with Moses. Joshua would accompany Moses to nearly all places he went, including in mountains for prayer. Therefore, if you want something, follow diligently, in thick and thin.When you are imparted with something you need to have the discipline to continue to follow and learn from the one who imparts you. Along the way, you can be rebuked or corrected.The other important issue is maturity when you are imparted with gifts/a gift. God can give you a gift like Elijah who could command the heavens not to give rains until he speaks so. If you have such a gift you have to be mature and know the words to speak to people, otherwise you end up cursing people. Mature people continue to love people even if they might be offended.Remember for with God all things are possible (Mark 10: 27).Moses passed the baton to Joshua and Elijah passed the anointing to Elisha. My prayer is that desire to take the baton and run with it in your generation.Remember for with God all things are possible (Mark 10: 27)..I remember in 1969, when I was still a young man. I was requested to interpret for a white man from USA. The mere fact that I was interpreting for the whole congregation made me to believe that I was superior. However, my pastor noticed the pride that had crept into me, and stopped the preacher and ordered me to sit down. I was embarrassed to the bone, but I continued to follow him. This incident addressed the pride that was slowly gathering momentum in me.The other important issue is maturity when you are imparted with gifts/a gift. God can give you a gift like Elijah who could command the heavens not to give rains until he speaks so. If you have such a gift you have to be mature and know the words to speak to people, otherwise you end up cursing people. Mature people continue to love people even if they might be offended.Moses passed the baton to Joshua and Elijah passed the anointing to Elisha. My prayer is that desire to take the baton and run with it in your generation.