Felex Share Senior ReporterGovernment yesterday gave civil servants unions up to November 15 to submit names of those interested in taking part in a residential stands scheme initiated by the employer as part of the workers non-monetary incentives. After all the names have been captured, Government and the civil servants unions would work on the implementation strategy.This emerged from a meeting between officials from the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing and civil servants unions under the umbrella Apex Council yesterday.At least 100 000 civil servants are set to get residential stands from the scheme as part of the efforts by Government to give its workers non-monetary incentives.Government last week tasked chairpersons of the civil servants unions to submit names of those willing to take part in the scheme yesterday.The lists would assist Government in allocating land in various towns and cities.Speaking after yesterday s meeting, College Lecturers Association of Zimbabwe president Mr David Dzatsunga said they had requested for more time to incorporate all interested members. Apex Council requested for time to afford all eligible civil servants time to register for the scheme since there is much clamouring for the stands, he said. The permanent secretary agreed that this was a massive project and all the names should be in by November 15 when the meeting to map out the implementation strategy will be convened. The Apex Council will confirm the list of prospective beneficiaries on November 11. Housing delivery is one of the key goals of Zim-Asset and Government intends to provide 300 000 housing units to the people by 2018.Civil servants have for years been agitating for a specific housing scheme as many of those which had been established in their name had not benefited them.Apex Council team leader Mrs Cecelia Alexander said the response from the workers was overwhelming. The workers are excited and they want the stands as soon as yesterday, she said. This is the best thing Government has done for the worker in many years. We encourage all those still to submit their names to approach their respective unions and register. Those who get stands can as well apply for mortgages from the National Building Society which has been established to provide mortgages for housing developments. Progressive Teachers Union of Zimbabwe secretary-general Mr Raymond Majongwe said every worker had a right to be part of the historical development. We should not lose out on this project we have been pushing for years, he said. Government at the moment cannot offer us an increment and the best they can do is to provide a roof for the workers. Only a few of them have a place to call home and this is their time to have one. It is our hope that this will not be abused in a way as in the past what began as ours ended in the hands of wrong people mainly politicians, he added.The stands project is a culmination of a three-day engagement the workers had with Government negotiators last month.The engagement was organised by the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Prisca Mupfumira.