NEW YORK. &#8211; Donald Trump says he plans to make America energy independent. He may receive an unintended boost this week in the form of an oil production cut by Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which could raise crude prices. Mr Trump has pledged to slash regulations he sees as impediments to US fossil-fuel industries. But, the US has moved closer to energy independence in recent years. Oil imports are down and exports of natural gas and diesel are up. Overall, the net amount of energy brought into the country fell to 11,2 percent of domestic need in 2015 from 30,1 percent in 2006, according to Gregor Macdonald, an independent energy analyst.Energy experts say the biggest barrier to additional increased domestic oil production today is the low price of crude, not red tape.While the President-elect has certain extraordinary levers he could try to use to raise oil prices &#8211; including restricting imports of crude from countries such as Saudi Arabia &#8211; the actions could prove politically controversial, and likely to drive up prices at the pump, something politicians are historically loath to do.EnlargeHowever, OPEC, which declined to curtail its output to put a floor on prices two years ago, is now trying to reach an agreement this week in Vienna to cut production as a way to address a continuing imbalance between supply and demand.That may be a boon for Mr Trump and US oil and gas producers, who helped create the global glut by using advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to unlock new supplies. Oil companies would be able to clean up damaged balance sheets, and increase the pace of drilling, if an OPEC production cut leads global prices to tick up over $50 a barrel and stabilise.In a YouTube video last week detailing his plans for his first 100 days in office, Mr Trump promised to roll back regulations on energy. I will cancel job-killing restrictions on the production of American energy, including shale energy and clean coal, creating many millions of high-paying jobs, he said.While industry officials applaud such measures, many say they need higher prices to kick production into another gear. To get the full blown benefit of all the reserves out there, you need a higher and stable price, says Lee Fuller, executive vice president of the Independent Petroleum Association of America.Although total energy independence may be difficult, if not impossible, for the US to achieve, the country is closer to that goal today than it has ever been since the early 1970s.In August 2008, the US produced five million barrels a day of crude oil. Eight years later, production was at 8,7 million barrels, according to the latest monthly tally from the Energy Information Administration. That is down from a peak of 9,6 million barrels daily in April 2015, as domestic oil production has fallen in recent months and imports have risen because lower global oil prices led US producers to idle drilling rigs and cut production budgets.Still, the strength of American oil production gives Mr Trump more room to maneuver, and more ability to adopt a foreign policy that challenges Saudi Arabia and the rest of OPEC.The US boom offers a grand opportunity to strengthen our ties with our allies and friends and gives us commercial leverage, said Kathleen Harnett White, a former environmental regulator in Texas who is now a policy fellow at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative think tank based in Austin. Mr Trump and his advisers have railed against OPEC. He is operating from this widespread view, formed in the 1970s, that OPEC is manipulating the price of oil to the detriment of the US, says Robert McNally, president of energy-advisory firm the Rapidan Group and a former National Security Council adviser for energy under President George W. Bush.Many people close to the incoming president view Saudi Arabia, a key OPEC member, with distrust. One of Mr Trump s key energy advisers is Harold Hamm, the chairman and chief executive of Continental Resources Inc.Mr Trump has praised him as an amazing friend and a valuable guide on energy issues.In an interview earlier in November following Mr Trump s election, Mr Hamm suggested a new relationship with America s overseas oil suppliers. Some of the countries, Saudi Arabia in particular, have been treated too kindly, because of the large supply of oil, Mr. Hamm said. I don t think that may be the case in the future. Nonetheless, a coordinated agreement by OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, to tighten supplies to oversupplied oil markets could provide a windfall for independent oil and gas producers such as Mr Hamm, and generate momentum for Mr Trump s energy-independence plans.There is no question that the U.S. has the capacity to ramp up production, if prices support it.There is a sea of oil, in particular, in West Texas Permian Basin. The US Geological Survey recently estimated that the area s Wolfcamp Shale held 20 billion barrels of oil. That is three times the size of the Bakken Shale in North Dakota, and the largest continuous oil accumulation ever assessed in the U.S.At present, operators in the Permian Basin produce about two million barrels a day. Bud Brigham, founder of Brigham Resources LLC, said production could double or triple within a few years. It has legs and it has depth, he said. If that were to happen, the US would tilt even further from being an importer to an exporter nation.In 2008, US oilmen such as Mr Brigham were just beginning to figure out how to apply hydraulic fracturing technology to the Bakken Shale, the first steps in what has turned into a domestic oil renaissance in the US.Now the limitations are more economic than technological.Mr Macdonald said Mr Trump s vision of energy independence has been largely achieved. The entire vision of an America as an energy powerhouse that produces more of its own energy, uses more of its own energy and exports the surplus . . . it is already here, he said.The Obama administration didn t promote that vision, he added. The reason America doesn t know that is because of a failure of sales and marketing. Mr Trump is pledging to promote US energy output, and OPEC s attempts to raise prices may give him a head start &#8211; without tying him to resulting gasoline price increases. The popularity of the US president is directly related to the price of gasoline at the pump, said Bill Ritter, a former Colorado governor and director of the Center for the New Energy Economy at Colorado State University. You are in really dangerous territory if a president impacts it. &#8211; wsj.