MONTEVIDEO. Argentina captain Lionel Messi has said his side need a drastic change if they are to qualify for the 2018 World Cup after Edgardo Bauza s men suffered 3-0 loss to Brazil on Thursday. Goals from Philippe Coutinho, Neymar and Paulinho secured a memorable win for Brazil over rivals Argentina in Belo Horizonte.The result sees Brazil top of CONMEBOL qualifying by a point, while Argentina are sixth in the 10-team standings, with the top four automatically qualifying for the tournament in Russia in two years time.Barcelona star Messi told Ole newspaper: We need to change our mental approach. If one is not mentally well then the legs don t respond. We need to change this s&#8212;ty situation. We didn t expect this result. It could have even been worse. We weren t able to react. We must improve a lot. We can t repeat what we ve been doing up to now because we will not come out of this situation. We still depend on ourselves but we cannot give away points, especially at home. We need a drastic change. Of the match itself, Messi said: We re upset with the result, with the game, and unfortunately, we ve lost another. Up until their first goal, we felt we were both pretty even. Everything was fine. But after the second it hurt us a lot. The second goal finished us off. We were disorganised, we started to get desperate and there were large spaces that they got through with their speed. But that s it, we have to focus on facing Colombia and be aware that there are many thing we need to change so that this situation changes. Argentina are next in action at home to Colombia on Nov. 15, and Messi has called on the nation s fans to get behind the team.He said: I hope the people in San Juan have patience. That affects us. I watched on TV the game in Cordoba [Argentina s home loss 1-0 to Paraguay on Oct. 11] and I could see that the players were booed and insulted. That does not help. We need to be united. We need to feel that we are the hosts. They have to understand that we need to do it together. We are the first to want to win and get results. When those around you are not behind you notice that. We have a few days to forget and prepare the next one. It needs to be different to that [performance] of today. We know we are going to be punished but we need to be strong to come out of this situation. There are many games left and we are not thinking about missing out on qualifying. Winning the rest of them we will be back in contention. We must be positive because we think we will get there but we need to change a lot. Barcelona superstar Neymar outshone club-mate Lionel Messi with his 50th international goal for Brazil in Belo Horizonte as the five-time World Cup winners romped to a 3-0 win in the Estadio Mineirao.It was a sweet return to the venue for Brazil, who were humiliated 7-1 at the same ground by Germany in the semi-finals of the 2014 World Cup.Neymar s landmark strike was sandwiched by a spectacular effort from Liverpool s Philippe Coutinho and a second-half finish from China-based midfielder Paulinho.Barcelona superstar Neymar took his tally to 50 goals in 74 games as Brazil recorded their fifth consecutive victory under new coach Tite to remain on top of South America s qualification table.Neymar &#8211; still only 24 &#8211; is now closing in on Romario s mark of 55 goals and is firmly on track to surpass Pele s record haul of 77 goals in 91 games.The win was a remarkable fifth consecutive qualifying victory under the reign of new coach Tite, who took over following the sacking of Dunga in June following Brazil s Copa America Centenario debacle, when they failed to advance from the group stage.Uruguay stayed firmly on Brazil s shoulder with a 2-1 defeat of Ecuador at Montevideo s Estadio Centenario.The Uruguayans took the lead on 12 minutes when former Liverpool defender Sebastian Coates bundled in a corner from close range for his first international goal.Espanyol striker Felipe Caicedo then rounded off a sweeping Ecuador counter-attack to equalise just before half-time.But Uruguay responded immediately, Diego Rolan stabbing home a low finish on the stroke of half-time to restore the home side s lead.Elsewhere on Thursday, Copa America Centenario champions Chile had captain and goalkeeper Claudio Bravo to thank for a hard-earned point in a 0-0 draw against Colombia in Barranquilla.The Chileans, missing injured Arsenal star Alexis Sanchez, needed two superb saves from Bravo to keep Colombia at bay in a gritty game played in sweltering conditions.But Bravo s display was tempered by an injury which forced the Manchester City goalkeeper off the field midway through the second half.Bravo had earlier produced two fine blocks to deny Oscar Murillo and Miguel Borja as Colombia were struggled to break the deadlock.Colombia s Argentinian coach Jose Pekerman bemoaned a lack of precision in front of goal but was buoyed by the return of talismanic striker Radamel Falcao, who was introduced as a half-time substitute. We tried everything and we had chances but we lacked precision, Pekerman said. But the most important fact of the game was the return of Falcao. In other games, Paraguay suffered a 4-1 mauling against Peru in Asuncion to derail their qualification campaign.Paraguay coach Francisco Arce attempted to put a positive spin on his team s loss. We re still in the race to qualify, Arce said. We don t think we re dead, we just need to pick ourselves up and get on with it, he added.Venezuela scored their first win of the qualifiers with a 5-0 thrashing at home to Bolivia, with Josef Martinez scoring a hat-trick. AFP.