What is iPECS Cloud?iPECS Cloud brings all of the features you know and love from an on-premise phone system and delivers them through the cloud. iPECS Cloud is tailored to deliver reliable and simple communications to your desktop from our highly secure and resilient data centres. This means we manage the phone system for you and you just use the handset, web portal or applications to access everything you need, when you need it. iPECS Cloud is a Best-In-Class UCaaS solution accommodated to the cloud environment. iPECS Cloud contains Agility, Flexibility and Simplicity on top of the proven technology of Ericsson-LG Enterprise, leading in business communications. Equipped with a variety of end-points, applications and features, iPECS Cloud could be your smart option for your communication system.Why would it suit my business?Because iPECS Cloud is designed to scale it suits all sizes of business whether you are have a single home office or multiple locations around the globe. With on-demand features and same-day provisioning you can add users or remove users quickly and easily. With our advanced feature packs you can completely tailor the user s experience and provide a call centre solution, reception console and much more with a simple click.Pay as you growiPECS Cloud will set you free from complexity and concerns over your resource utilisation for business communication. iPECS Cloud features excellent flexibility and is true to the Pay As You Grow concept. You can adjust right amount of capacity, right features and right applications at the right time through simple management tool. iPECS Cloud will let you be optimum always as your business grows.Easy to start up cloud solutionFrom a single license . . . due to the absence of minimum quantity requirements in iPECS Cloud, you can easily start up cloud solution while protecting IT resources. With iPECS Cloud, you can get an experience high quality and reliable communications like on-premise environment that you are using now. Also, you can focus to your core business without IT headaches. iPECS Cloud is simply the best answer to your needs to minimise the upfront investment on your business communication solution.Focus on now iPECS Cloud delivers best of breed Agility so that you can keep up with the rapidly changing business environment. All you have to do is just to focus on your core competencies. You don t need to invest everything on day one. Ericsson-LG Enterprise will enable you to stay up to date with the optimised business communication solution together with iPECS Cloud.Flexible deployment scenariofit your goals and budgetiPECS Cloud features outstanding flexibility in deployment and can be deployed in Public, Private and Hybrid cloud. Different businesses have different communication needs and environments. With iPECS Cloud, you can make deployment best fit to your business needs. iPECS Cloud allows you to have your network transformation goals aligned to your budget plan.Easily expand your businessAs your business is growing, you may develop worry about expanding branch offices together with the deployment of communication network. Will you invest for another set of hardware for inter-office communications? Of course not. iPECS Cloud allows you to minimise your CAPEX on your business. With iPECS Cloud, you can easily customise your business network deployment for multi-sites thanks to the multi-tenant service. In addition, all site s networks are managed as centralised for IT manager s convenience.Combine all your business in secureiPECS Cloud allows you to ensure communication security as extension, media and trunk SBC nodes are provided with a variety of security features, including Abnormal message/Flooding/Call attack protection and much more. In addition, Call barring control is possible for Call fraud protection through set a charge limit by Billing gateway. With powerful security features, all your business can be easily integrated while keeping business information secure.Complete suite collaborationsVoice? Video? Whatever you needThere are a variety of options for business collaborations. And you might look for diverse collaboration tools for your own business. iPECS is a proven business communication solution in IP telephony market. Along with state-of-the-art functionalities, iPECS offers a wide range of portfolios including cloud, IP PBX, UC applications, voice, video and management tools. With iPECS Cloud, you can easily get an experience of diverse high quality collaboration tools whatever you need.Powerful telephony featuresAs far as the Cloud type business communication solution is concerned, some might worry about limitation to use traditional telephony features comparing with on-premise deployment. However, these concerns are not valid in iPECS Cloud. We offer iPECS Cloud with full range of telephony features such as Hot Desk, Mobile Extension, Group Queuing, Multi/One/Share Number and etc. You can get an experience of high-quality telephony features without worries while using cloud.Collaborate smarteriPECS Cloud has powerful optional collaboration applications called iPECS UCE and iPECS Meetings as an all-in-one UC solution. With iPECS UCE, you can easily collaborate among colleagues in real-time with multi devices including IM, chatting, SMS, voice, video etc. And, if you need web conferencing solution for more high class collaboration, you can take advantage of convenient video conferencing functions provided by iPECS Meetings. iPECS Meetings is a Full HD video conference and powerful sharing application. It will allow you to upgrade your business communication way as supporting mobility environment as well.Keep your business continuityCommunicate like in the officeLaptop, Tablet PC and Mobile. In this era of ubiquitous computing, diverse devices become more common for communication. And most of employees also communicate with multi devices. As iPECS UCE is served in iPECS Cloud, you can enjoy the same rich features like voice, video and collaboration tools with any of your devices at anytime, anywhere. Also, your extension number will be applied on all your devices as one number service. With one number service, you can communicate just like in the office without limitations. iPECS Cloud allows you expand your business communication route.Continuity for yourcommunication and businessiPECS Cloud provides UcaaS environment for seamless communication. Users can boost productivity as iPECS UCE delivers an integrated communication that available consistently on desktop, laptop, mobile and tablets.(And/iOS) Enjoy empowering features including rich presence, instant voice/video communication, e-mail, text and chat and much more. Also feel free to collaborate with no restrictions of time and space.Improve customer serviceYou might have an experience of missing an important business call while you re out of office. A continuity of business communication is very important for your customer satisfaction. iPECS Cloud integrates your office s communication for seamless service to your customer. It connects offices and individuals seamlessly to support real-time communication and bring customers closer. Through iPECS Cloud s integration, you can easily realise an improved customer services that guarantee customer satisfaction.Powerful management toolMulti-layered management tooliPECS Cloud offers multi-layered management tool for reducing operation expenses and time. As management tool is provided as web based and centralised, users can easily manage all IT resources. For iPECS Cloud business partner, a back-end portal is provided. Partners can easily configure and order all services through back-end portal.In addition, it provides Billing gateway for easy billing management. For customer IT manager and end-user, a front-end portal is provided. All IT resources can be configured and managed in here. IT managers can actually divide features for assigning to appropriate users to make efficient business environment without complexity. And end user can manage their own phone configuration on web browser wherever they are.