Bishop B. Manjoro DunamisOne of the things in life that has hindered the lives of many is giving up. Whatever reasons there may be, however strong they may be, giving up is not an option. In the walk of faith one great law is to never, never, never, give up A success secret I have treasured and kept over the years is never to talk quitting or negative about myself. No. I fight. You could be feeling you failed your O Levels or other key exams you sat for; you may have been kicked from your job; your company or business broke and shut down; a rough year relationships and marriage-wise; suffered from a terrible accident or disease; been in misfortune after misfortune and lost beloved ones to death or to the world &#8211; I have a word for you from the Lord; don t give up, you can laugh your way into your life! The joy of the Lord is your strength!The fact that you failed, messed, or missed the mark all through-out this year backwards, does not mean you are a failure, nothing or a nobody, No, No, No. It s not over until it s over. Read on and discover how you can change your circumstance and turn your failure, misery, pain and distress into success.In Genesis 25 we hear that Rebekah was pregnant and had twins in her womb, Esau and Jacob of whom God said to her two nations are in thy womb . Interestingly, when delivery time came there was a challenge amongst the boys. Whoever would come out first; would be endowed with the blessing of the first born. They fought their way out.Listen to me friend, life was never meant to be on a silver platter for you. If you think that things just have to happen and just work out for you without effort you are making a mistake. You will live in misery and pain much of your days on earth. Your marriage, finances, health, spiritual life, family do not just move or work out on their own.No. it s a fight. Pressures will come but you will have to fight the good fight of faith and stand on the Word of God. If you just sit, relax and watch, you will lose your joy, success and what rightfully belongs to you. You must fight; learn to fight through God s Word and promises.So the boys fought and Esau won, Jacob seemingly lost but never let go. He came out holding the heel of Esau the first born. For a moment it seemed Jacob had lost it all.Later on we see Esau crying for the blessing of the first born which he lost to Jacob who had been tipped by their mother and got the blessing. Esau was distraught. The blessing was gone. He had nothing.Friend, have you lost something in your life which meant so much to you and had the devil laugh at you day and night calling you a failure and a loser? Hold on. O hallelujah, your story is about to change! Lift up your faith, shake yourself and say to yourself, I will never, never, give up!:I remember years ago when the roof of our church fell down. It was a hard moment. It was on TV, newspapers and all over that the roof of a church in town had fallen down. I became known as the pastor whose roof fell down in town. It was not an easy time to the point that one day I remember walking in the CBD and having passed two people I heard them immediately laugh. Whatever they were laughing, I felt the enemy say to me, See, it s known everywhere, they are laughing at you, your roof fell down. For a moment I almost grew despair; then something happened. Soon after the people laughed and it had touched me, the Spirit of God spoke to me. O hallelujah. He said to me, Why are you low, why are you worrying, what is wrong? I told him, pointing at the two people, that, They are laughing at me; that the roof of the church fell down.Then He said, So what s wrong? Don t you have a mouth? Can t you laugh also? Laugh also! O glory. I had never heard this before, laughing back at the enemy? So with enthusiasm I turned and looked at the people who had laughed, and I said, Hahahahaaa , laughing out loud! They just turned, looked at me and wondered what it was!Immediately I knew I had won. Right there, in the street I had won the fight. The enemy was wielding his attacks to wear me down and get me to feel low, anxious and worried. From that day, it never worked, and I never worry or get depressed. Armed with the powerful revelation and joyful spirit, we managed to rebuild the roof &#8211; a better one with a curve-shape inside, one that astounded architects and all that come into our church to this day. O glory to God.What am I saying to you today? I am saying have you lost something and are about to despair? Lost your business or job? Lost money in an idea that flopped and its haunting you? Have had several miscarriages and its crushing your heart and hope of ever holding a baby in your hands? Failed a very important exam and came out with terrible results? Got demoted, or deported and lost a life-time opportunity? Lost in a match or com- petition?Friend God gave me a word for you, don t give up, don t despair, it s not over until it s over. Laugh your way into your breakthrough. Worry or stress will do you no good. It will not change anything. If you stand on God s Word there is light at the end of the tunnel and it s not over until it s over.Like Esau yes you lost it, but it s not the end of the story. It s what you do next after a set down that determines your destiny. Don t give up. For with God all things are possible (Mark 10:27).