Sports ReporterMighty Warriors assistant coach Yohane Chikaola says tomorrow s friendly match against South Africa at the National Sports Stadium will present them with a further chance to assess some of the rookie players. Zimbabwe are going to Cameroon next week for the Africa Women Cup of Nations which begins on November 19. This is the only friendly, we are going to assess our players, our approach and playing structure will remain the same, said Chikaola. The game is going to mirror what we are going to do at the AFCON. Yes, we are worried that with this game we might be letting out our game plan. But, I am sure they are also worried because we are in the same group and will also use the same players. The coach said tomorrow s squad will feature trialists, some of whom played in the friendly match against Egypt in September. We are going to look at other players who haven t played for too long like Ruvimbo Mutyavaviri, she has been absent for two years, she was injured and now has a baby, she has nursed her and is back. We are also going to try Lisa (Mpofu, goalkeeper) and other new guys who are in the team and see how it works. We are not worried about the result but see how we fare so we will use half of the regulars, half of the trialists. At least the regular players, we know what they are capable of, we have seen them at the Olympics but we still want to see other players like Berita Kabwe, she played in the game against Egypt so we want to see her again. Is she worth to carry to AFCON, we want to carry players who will give us the necessary back-up, said Chikaola.The assistant coach said the team was responding well. The response is quite good but we are worried, you know women s league is not functioning properly, a lot of politics, the girls are just down whenever they come into camp but I think we are doing much better. Their fitness level is not up there but we will use this match to measure ourselves. Whenever we play SA it s 50-50. They compete, we compete, battle of Southern Region. We know how they play, how they move around with the ball, so tactically our players will be up there. This is the only friendly we have got and they will give us the necessary preparation before the tournament, he said.The cheapest tickets will cost $1.South Africa have named a 25-team squad that is going to compete at the Women s Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon next week.According to SAFA website, Banyana new coach Ellis Ellis, has maintained most of the players that were in Rio for the Olympics Games in August.South Africa SquadGoalkeepers: Andile Dlamini (Mamelodi Sundowns Ladies), Yolula Tsawe (JVW FC, Roxanne Barker (SC Heerenveen).Defenders: Leandra Smeda (UWC Ladies), Nothando Vilakazi (Palace Super Falcons), Janine van Wyk, Noko Matlou (MaIndis FC), Astria Boks (Santos FC), Bambanani Mbane (Bloemfontein Celtic Ladies), Lebogang Mabatle (TUKS), Nomathemba Ntsibande (Springs Home Sweepers).Midfielders: Mamello Makhabane (JVW FC), Amogelang Motau (UWC Ladies), Refiloe Jane (Mamelodi Sundowns Ladies), Nompumelelo Nyandeni (JVW FC), Silindile Ngubane (Durban Ladies), Linda Motlhalo (JVW FC).Forwards: Shiwe Nogwanya (Bloemfontein Celtic Ladies), Andisiwe Mgcoyi (Mamelodi Sundowns Ladies), Jermaine Seoposenwe (Samford University), Thembi Kgatlana (UWC Ladies).