Malik Zwane views Formula , his latest album, as a definition of peace of mind something of a cleansing process after a two-year lull. We work on peace of mind everyday. We fight for it and maintain it. I believe that beautiful things can grow in darkness. It s a matter of keeping the faith alive and not being discouraged. God is always watching. Malik shares how he s had to walk a lonely and tough road. I didn t know how strong I was until this time. I got sick with depression. I had anxiety attacks and I didn t want to see people or (be) around them because everyone kept asking when am I releasing an album? I was making efforts to make music but no one was there. Everyone was too busy with other things. It was really quiet. Everyone moved away from me, I couldn t even get session musician gigs. Bookings dried up. Maybe I didn t push enough, maybe I gave up. I thought maybe I was forcing matters, he said.A biotechnology graduate from Pretoria Technikon, Malik said that there are times he wanted to quit music, type out his CV and look for a job in the laboratory. But he remembered that music was a passion and his first love. I ve learnt my lesson and it was not nice, but I m glad I went through it because it taught me a lot about God . . . luckily, I have a supportive family and I didn t feel the wrath that much. But what excites him currently is how this new album that he composed, wrote, produced and sung is so well done and promises to put him back on top. This one I took my time on it and gave my everything. It took me two years to record. It s not sad songs, it s feel-good type of vibe. It s hard to even put it down to one genre because it s just beautiful music that you can play in your car with your kids, it s a soundtrack to a lot of things. The harmonies are super and I play with your emotions, taking you on highs and lows. One of the outstanding songs is Formula , which talks about how there is no formula to happiness and relationships and how we all have to feel our way through life and make sense. My Dali is a stirring love song which will remind you of Mthulise. It s about commitment to undying love. On Kasi Lami he pays tribute to his township Daveyton. He says he recorded it as a reminder of where he comes from and the life in the hood . People tend to rush and leave the townships as soon as they make it, but we ve had comfortable lives and we wouldn t have these beautiful kasie love stories to tell if we didn t come from the kasie. It s been four years since Malik moved back home to live with his mother and quit the hustle and bustle of Johannesburg. I m mommy s boy, I m at home and in no rush for anything. I get all the attention from my mother as the last born of three, he laughed.mofokengl@sowetan.co.za