Tererai MugwadiNaledi Sande Arts Reporter &#8212; A number of urban grooves artistes who made a mark in their circles some years ago are set to reunite for a show that is likely to bring back memories at King Fisher tonight. The artistes include Cindy Munyavi who recently released a single titled Mubvunzo , Trevor Dongo who has also released a video Shoko Rerudo , Pauline, Sanii Makhalima, Tererai Mugwadi, ExQ, Extra Large and Goodchild, best known for his song Iwe Fadzayi .The show is organised by Boss Trey of Trey Promotions and will be an annual event. This event is going to celebrate the contribution done by these artistes to the industry and also appreciate the support we have had from the beautiful people of Zimbabwe. It s always good to share the good things in life, said Boss Trey.The 75 percent local content policy passed by the Government years ago saw many of these artistes rising to fame. They used to make great performances at galas and their songs were popular with young people.The biggest urban grooves gathering to date was the Youth Hangout Bash in 2005 at Avondale shops which saw urban grooves artistes from all over Zimbabwe entertaining a massive crowd of 15 000 people. However, the genre gradually faded and it has now been replaced by Zimdancehall that has stolen the hearts of many young people.For the past four years names like Winky D, Killer T, Soul Jah Love and Seh Calaz have dominated music played by young people. Promoter, Boss Trey believes, however, that there is still a platform for urban grooves since they are still making good music. Urban grooves still has room in the music industry despite the rise of dancehall because they still making good music and it is the only genre that expresses love in songs in the best way. Tonight will see urban grooves musicians gathering to take their loyal fans down memory lane with artistes that have been silent like Pauline, Taurai Mandebvu, Leonard Mapfumo and Maskiri reliving their hit songs. One of the artistes Goodchild expressed his excitement on the upcoming event.He said, We are all excited by this initiative and all our fans are looking forward to it since it s something they have always asked from us. We hope that Maskiri, Nox and maybe Roki who are all in South Africa will be able to attend. 