HOBART. Play was abandoned on the second day of the second Test cricket between Australia and South Africa without a ball being bowled following incessant rain in Hobart yesterday. The umpires made a ground inspection at 2pm local time (3am) and decided to call off the day s play, with the start scheduled 30 minutes earlier for each of the remaining three days. South Africa hold an 86-run lead after routing Australia for 85 and reaching stumps on the first day at 171 for five. Temba Bavuma will resume today on 38 with Quinton de Kock not out 28.Extensive covers protected the Bellerive pitch and surrounds amid continual rain throughout Sunday with only a few hardy souls in the stands. The Proteas are in a strong position to claim victory and clinch their third consecutive series in Australia after rolling the home team in just 32.5 overs.Vernon Philander powered the Proteas with five for 21 and was supported by recalled paceman Kyle Abbott who took three for 41. It was Australia s lowest total at home against South Africa to revive memories of recent catastrophic batting collapses.The capitulation revisited the nightmares of their miserable 47 in Cape Town in 2011 and England s demolition of them for 60 at Trent Bridge last year. Today s weather forecast was for a few showers. Meanwhile, Australian cricket chief Pat Howard yesterday urged the embattled national team and organisation to show resilience in their fight for credibility.Steve Smith s team, facing a fifth straight Test defeat this year, was rolled for a record-low total of 85 against South Africa in Hobart on Saturday, intensifying pressure on the players, coaching staff and selectors.It was the fifth time in the past six years Australia had been bowled out for fewer than 100. The latest debacle also followed the stunning first innings collapse of 10 for 86 in the first Test in Perth, which the Aussies lost by 177 runs.Under-fire coach Darren Lehmann, whose contract was recently extended until 2019, has admitted Australia s batting was in crisis. Howard, whose position is also under scrutiny, fielded questions at a news conference at the Bellerive ground during the washed-out second day s play. AFP.&nbsp;