The South African Presidency yesterday urged former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela (left) to stop attacks on President Jacob Zuma (right)CAPE TOWN. &#8211; The South African Presidency yesterday urged former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela to stop attacks on President Jacob Zuma. Presidential spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga said the Presidency is concerned about continuing public statements by the former Public Protector on matters relating to Zuma and the state capture report.Ngqulunga said Madonsela has discharged her duties and has no further role to play in the process regarding the state capture report.Madonsela s unwarranted public attacks on Zuma are unbecoming and are not helpful, the spokesperson said. It would be prudent therefore, for the former Public Protector to step back and allow legal and constitutional processes to unfold unhindered, Ngqulunga said.Under an order from the High Court in Pretoria, Madonsela released the state capture report on November 2.The report sheds light on how the wealthy Gupta family used their close ties with Zuma to influence the appointment of cabinet ministers and CEOs of state-owned enterprises.On the same day, Madonsela released an audio recording of the interview she conducted with Zuma while she compiled the report during the investigation into the alleged state capture by the Guptas.On Thursday, Madonsela defended the release of the audio recording and denied it was a leak as reported by Gupta-owned ANN7 television channel.Madonsela said Zuma s reason for trying to halt the release of her report was that he was not given a chance to answer allegations against him.Ngqulunga said the Presidency remains concerned as well by the leaking by Madonsela to television channel eNCA, of her discussion with Zuma. This conduct has serious implications with regards to ethics, confidentiality and the protection of information gathered during investigations by the Office of the Public Protector, said Ngqulunga.It is also not clear why Madonsela decided to leak only the audio recordings of the discussion with the president despite the fact that she had interviewed several witnesses, Ngqulunga said. The president urges all parties to act as guided by the Constitution and respect the processes that are unfolding in respect of the report, Ngqulunga added.Meanwhile, the ANC Women s League said yesterday the failed motion of no confidence in President Zuma was nothing but a strategy to liquidate the ANC,The motion, brought by the Democratic Alliance, was debated in Parliament on Thursday, and failed after 214 MPs voted against the motion and 126 voted in its favour.ANC Women s League secretary-general Meokgo Matuba said they welcomed the rejection of the motion. The DA and its allies are under pressure to deliver on the mandate of imperialist forces to advance regime change in SA. The aim is to have white supremacy rule which will economically marginalise black people and not allow land redistribution programmes in SA. She named a number of government successes under the ANC. The imperialist funded motion, attempting to reverse the gains of our democracy has been rejected by Parliament and the ANCWL welcomes the decision. Parliament representing the views of South Africans has demonstrated its confidence in the State President Jacob Zuma and his collective. The league applauded the rejection of the motion. Divergent to the apartheid government, the ANC-led government is a champion of women emancipation and has interests in the lives of our children. The DA and its allies have no interests in the development of the vulnerable in society, but to deliver on the imperialist mandate of regime change in SA, Matuba said. &#8211; Xinhua/News24.