Leonard TsipaPetros Kausiyo and Eddie ChikamhiA DEFIANT Leonard Tsipa insists the Warriors have enough quality within their ranks and should not be intimidated by giants Algeria and Senegal at the 2017 African Cup of Nations in Gabon. Tsipa was on Thursday named in a squad of locally-based Warriors that will face Zambia in an international friendly at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon.The match kicks off at 4pm.With Warriors coach Callisto Pasuwa challenging the local contingent to use such games as this afternoon s encounter to prove their mettle and stake claims for the Nations Cup squad, Tsipa said yesterday he was ready to grab the opportunity with both hands.The veteran CAPS United forward, a leading contender for the Premiership s Golden Boot award with 12 goals, maintained the Warriors have no reason to feel intimidated by the profiles of Algeria and Senegal. Firstly, we have to give full support to our coach. We should not discourage him. We can do it, trust me and whoever is given the opportunity to play has to put in 100 percent effort, Tsipa said.But does he think the locals will be intimated by the profiles of players such as Sadio Mane, Moussa Sow or Riyad Mahrez? I don t think so. We have quality in our own squad, which can deliver and we just have to be strong mentally and to believe in ourselves, said Tsipa.Tsipa said he was relishing the opportunity to face Chipolopolo at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon. It is a very important game for us. In fact we need more games as a national team in order to get the combinations right .A born-again Christian, Tsipa attributed his call-up to the Warriors to the Almighty.Tsipa believes at the ripe age of 34, it was not too late for him to play for his country on a regular basis.The Warriors will today begin the long journey in preparation for the Nations Cup finals. God is great. Now the ball is in my court I have to prove that I can play. I believe hard work pays. I have to keep on working hard. I believe in myself, you must have faith, he said. The first thing you need to do is give yourself to God . . . have time to pray in good and bad times, stay away from drugs, have discipline and respect your parents, your family (wife) and you must know the food that you must take and train hard always. Pasuwa is today likely to build his team around the regular players who took part in the qualifiers like goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva, defenders Teenage Hadebe, Hardlife Zvirekwi and Lawrence Mhlanga, midfielders Tafadzwa Kutinyu, Ronald Chitiyo, Talent Chawapihwa and Malvern Gaki.There are also exciting additions in this squad who include Hwange s revelation Gift Mbweti who is competing with Tsipa in the Golden Boot race.Rodreck Mutuma has not had a good season with Dynamos, but the coach was still inclined to give him the chance to redeem himself.Although the match may not have real significance in terms of the final squad to travel to Gabon for the AFCON finals, Pasuwa believes it was important to give the local players the platform to prove themselves.Zambia are using the match as part of their preparations for the 2018 World Cup qualifier against Cameroon next week.Just like the home team, Chipolopolo are expected to field local-based players in this match as their foreign-based contingent will only be available for their next friendly match against Uganda on Tuesday.However, Zambia have a number of home-based players who feature for their first team.The visitors will be looking up to the experience of Zanaco s 32-year-old midfielder Isaac Chansa, who has defied age to reclaim a place in the Chipolopolo set-up.Ten overseas Zambian players are expected to join the team in Kampala for the friendly against Uganda.Zimbabwe SquadGoalkeepers: Tatenda Mukuruva (Dynamos), Donovan Bernard (How Mine)Defenders: Godknows Murwira (Dynamos), Hardlife Zvirekwi (CAPS United), Ronald Pfumbidzai (CAPS United), Honest Moyo (Highlanders), Lawrence Mhlanga (Chicken Inn), Teenage Hadebe (Chicken Inn)Midfielders: Tendai Ndlovu (Highlanders), Farai Madhanhanga (Harare City), Jameson Mukombwe (Chapungu), Raphael Kutinyu (Chicken Inn), Ronald Chitiyo (Harare City), Talent Chawapihwa (ZPC Kariba), Malvern Gaki (Triangle)Strikers: Pritchard Mpelele (Hwange), Gift Mbweti (Hwange), Leonard Tsipa (CAPS United), Rodrick Mutuma (Dynamos), William Manondo (Harare City)ZambiaGoalkeepers: Jacob Banda (Zesco United), Allan Chibwe (Power Dynamos), Racha Kola (Zanaco)Defenders: Lawrence Chungu (Power Dynamos), Simon Silwimba (Zesco United), Billy Mutale (Power Dynamos), Adrian Chama (Green Buffaloes), Donashano Malama (Nkana), Ziyo Tembo (Zanaco), Fackson Kapumbu (Zanaco), Christopher Munthali (Nkana), George Chilufya (Zanaco)Midfielders: Fwayo Tembo (Power Dynamos), Jackson Chirwa (Green Buffaloes), Kondwani Mtonga (Zesco United), Richard Kasonde (Zanaco), Isaac Chansa (Zanaco), Misheck Chaila (Zesco United), Kelvin Mubanga (Power Dynamos) Charles Zulu (Zanaco), Rodrick Kabwe (Zanaco)Strikers: Justin Shonga (Nkwazi), Patson Daka (Power Dynamos), Ronald Kampamba (Nkana).