Alson DakirayiTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter&#8212;We are left with only a week before Miss Tourism Zimbabwe 2016 crowns the inaugural queen and the organisers have announced the top musicians who will headline the event. The pageant will be held at Rainbow Towers on November 25 with an annual ball, charity fundraiser scheduled prior to the event.Musicians who are billed to perform in both events include South African stars Busiswa and Dr Malinga of Via Orlando fame while local acts would be ably represented by Oliver Mtukudzi, Ammara Brown, Dudu Manhenga and Selmor Mtukudzi.In an interview Miss Tourism Zimbabwe spokesperson Alson Darikayi said preparations were at an advanced stage for both shows.He said the annual ball was a charity event organised to raise funds for the girl child. Miss Tourism Zimbabwe is more than just a pageant to select a beautiful girl. We wish to celebrate the girl child, invest in the empowerment of the girl child in several ways which include education, health, providing lasting solutions to problems related to their sanitary-ware, access to water, and food security among other challenges, he said.For this glamorous dinner, international superstar Mtukudzi will share the stage with Dudu. On the following day, South African musicians Busiswa and Dr Malinga of Via Orlando fame will serenade fans together with Ammara and Selmor.Darikayi said tickets were already selling at designated posts that include Reflections Stores, Talk City Joina and some selected Total services stations across Harare. Tickets for the finale are now available at our offices and the standard ticket is US$10 while the VIP is running for US$50. He said the event would be a red carpet affair and people were encouraged to dress up. Both events will see some red carpet treatment and we are in talks with those scheduled to host the red carpet interviews. We have partnered with several organisations that work with the girl child. Our anchor sponsor for the MTZ is Justice Maphosa who willlead the high profile delegation of more than 150 people from South Africa that include royalties and accomplished business people, he said.Asked who would be the master of ceremonies for both events, Dakirayi said they were still finalising and will announce this week together with other red carpet hosts. We are setting a new standard for Zimbabwe and Africa. We have a solid team on the ground giving so much attention. We are going to announce the red carpet hosts and masters of ceremony this week, he said.Running under the theme, Beauty Above and Beyond , the pageant will see 18 girls vying for the coveted title.