Shepherd Chimururi Cool Lifestyle CorrespondentWhen pupils set a benchmark of excellence the school automatically becomes an institutional role model. Sandringham High dominates in music, Churchill Boys High rules in soccer, Prince Edward inspires in rugby, Mzilikazi churns out actors, Mother Touch blesses the nation with student drivers and Tynwald Primary is known for flying out to exotic international educational tours.The e-learning slot has been taken over by Mashonaland West province based JS Omah primary school which curved its name in e-learning history books by becoming the first primary school in the province to organise e-learning week under the theme The E-learner .The school which is registered with the Computer Society of Zimbabwe produces internationally recognised ICDL certified students at primary level. The week long function was organised in an effort to raise awareness to parents on the importance of e-learning.Unlike the traditional consultation when parents come to converse with teachers the e-learning week had parents coming in as learners as well. It gave pupils a platform to showcase their computer operation skills and parents how to use the colourful and attractive educational content.Brothers Tatenda and Takunda Muchemwa who are in Grade Six and Two respectively, charmed their mother with polished Information , Communication and Technology (ICT) skills with the elder brother going through Microsoft Excel spreadsheet and the younger doing clicking and dragging on an activity about water pollution.In an interview with the Cool Lifestyle, Tatenda was in jovial mood. I was happy to show my mother how I can make an academic school report using a Microsoft Excel spread sheet how I can get the average mark. I also demonstrated to her how to insert numbers and how to calculate figures. I also showed her how I research using Encarta software, he saidThe students at the school are learning ICT through integration of computer operating skills and educational content. The collaboration is done between the computer teacher and respective class teachers.Tinomudashe Chisvo a Grade Two pupil won the hearts of onlookers as she a played the mini monster game which challenges a child to sort and arrange the right body parts and match wings, legs and the head. I enjoy doing matching of animals and their shelter where they live and what they do. I enjoy doing my maths on the computer than in the classroom because I will be learning while playing games. The size game is the toughest for me as I have to arrange things according to size like the small, big and biggest. When I grow up I want to be like Mr Macdonald Musendekwa my computer teacher, she said.Thelma Musendekwa a Grade Six student made a PowerPoint presentation showing parents how to design a slide show with background sound. The computer skills I am gaining are very important. I will use them when I will be looking for a job but first I want to create my own e-learning programmes. Already some senior students help our teachers to type and print exams for infants, she said with excitement.This milestone achievement by JS Omah primary school will go a long way in making ICT being recognised in schools and enjoy same status as sports, quiz and arts. The school which boast of a state-of-the-art computer laboratory loaded with educational softwares, has maintained a 100 percent pass rate since it was opened in 2014 after a making a conscious decision to marry everyday lessons with digital learning.