Ammara BrownNaledi Sande Arts Reporter &#8212; Rising star Ammara Brown is going to be the headline act at the inaugural Zimbabwe Achievers Awards, USA edition which is set for November 19. The Afro-pop sensation, who has made headlines locally with her energetic performances, said she is happy to embark on the promising trip. I am very excited! I feel privileged that the Zim Achievers Awards organisers chose to honour and recognise my journey in the music industry, said Ammara.She said she would use the opportunity to show how female artistes represent the girl child in music. I have been invited to this year s ZAA to share my experiences in the music industry and to discuss how female artistes like myself represent the girl child in music. Although this will be her first performance in the US, Ammara hopes to have more shows there next year. We have been getting calls for performances from Washington, Boston Massachusetts, Atlanta Georgia and many other states. The ZAA ceremony will take place at Westin Stonebriar Hotel and Golf Club in Dallas, Texas. ZAA will honour the outstanding achievements of Zimbabweans based in the US, and will recognise their work across a number of industries that include business and the media.Daughter of music legend Andy Brown, Ammara rose to fame in 2008 when she made it to the top 10 of Idols, East and Southern Africa and also managed to reach the top five before she was eliminated. Ammara has performed alongside local and international artistes that include Tehn Diamond, Jah Prayzah, P Square and Mi Casa.Most recently, she collaborated with ExQ on his music video Bhachura which has already received over 150 000 views. Her debut album which was supposed to be released in October was pushed to next year as she wants to finish the promotional tour for the album first. We have decided to complete our promotional tour for the album in order to push the awareness of the album. She will be touring SA this November and December plus there will also be new material on the album that has more international appeal, Ammara s manager Tsungai Zvobgo said.Ammara is also featuring in a television series called Muzita Rababa where she is playing a lead role as a pastor s wife. I will also shoot the video for Wachu Want featuring Chengeto Brown next week and it will be at the end of the month. 