Oliver Mtukudzi and wife Daisy at the launch of Hai-KoboArts Editor&#8212;The 2017 range of Oliver Mtukudzi s footwear brand, Hai Kobo, will go on exhibition today at Meikles Hotel where women and children s lines will be unveiled to complement men s shoe styles that have been trending since the brand was launched last year. Hai-Kobo was designed taking its name from the musician s chant on his 1977 song Bvongodza Muto and the footwear is exclusive to Barbours in the country while in South Africa it is available in Socrati Man in Rosebank.Manufacturers of the line said they intend to expand their distribution next year and the exhibition is meant to showcase the brands that will be available in various outlets that would be announced soon.Hai-Kobo brand manager Ephraim Maisiri said the exhibition will set the ground for an auction of the footwear set for November 29 at the same venue. The exhibition will take place at Meikles Hotel tomorrow (today) between 7pm and 9pm. We will unveil our brands that will be available next year. We have also added female and children s styles to the line and they will be showcased at the exhibition, said Maisiri. We will hold an auction at the same hotel on November 29 and Tuku will grace the event. We are planning to give 10 percent of the proceeds to charity. He said they will donate school shoes under the Hai-Kobo brand to disadvantaged children, especially from rural schools.There will be exclusive brands for the upmarket that would carry Tuku s signature.Maisiri said the brand has done well over the past year. The support has been fantastic. It has been a good year for us and there is need to expand. It is not easy to push a new product, but we managed to get clients. Because of the initial costs, our prices were a bit high and in 2017 they will be slightly lower. He said the exhibition will be an annual event and they intend to work with various skilled shoemakers to expand their products. There are many skilled shoemakers that need to showcase their talent. We will work with them so that they showcase their skills through this brand. We are grateful to Tuku for the good partnership that we have and we are now targeting the greater Southern Africa region before we go beyond with Hai-Kobo. 