Suluman ChimbetuTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Thrills, surprises and excitement are expected when dendera musician Suluman Chimbetu ties the knot on the same day that he launches his much-awaited album Jamboree on Saturday. The wedding, slated for Zimbali Gardens in Greendale, is expected to unite him with his former band member Franco Slomo Dhaka as well as his cousin Tryson who are part of the bridal team.Jah Prayzah is the best man while his wife Rufaro will be the chief bridesmaid. Suluman s publicist Joe Nyamungoma said everything was in place for the wedding and the album launch. Franco and Tryson are part of the bridal team together with other musicians. We are happy that they will be part of the historic event, he said. Nyamungoma said the day would be celebratory as the musician launches his album Jamboree . The album is ready with all the songs done. He made sure people enjoy the good music, he said. A massive party has been lined up at Belgravia Sports Club celebrating the double achievement for the musician.The party will have performances from Sulu himself, Jah Prayzah, Tryson, Hope Masike and Seh Calaz. While most top artistes have released their albums with anticipation of having hits that will rock the festive season, Sulu has apparently been waiting for the last stretch of weeks before the season to unleash his new product.On Saturday, he joins the race for the hit of the festive season and three weeks should be enough for his album to penetrate the market before Christmas. Since the death of his father in 2005, Sulu has been doing well in music.His first album Ndomusiya Nani was well received by music lovers and it was followed by Reverse Deal in 2009. Non-Stop managed to take the musician a step ahead though Syllabus was the cut above the rest.With songs Sean Timba and Nhambarikoshoni he became the darling of corporates and he clinched several deals and awards. His last album Gunship had songs that managed to keep the momentum.Sulu has been collaborating with different artistes on his albums. Nyamungoma is optimistic that the album will be one of the best to come from the Sean Timba hit- maker. There are a lot of surprises on the album I tell you. That is one album that defines Sulu as an artiste, he added.