Currently people and devices are more and more connected in a network world. Personal device such as mobile phone or camera is connected as well as business equipment on the same network. Also the media connected to the business network becomes more various.For enterprise the value of connectivity is in driving efficiency, quality of offering and possibility for new services to the company s employees and customers. People are also connected in lots of societies including working places as well as personal networks. In the networked environment, people don t work him/herself any more and should collaborate among others in local or remote areas.Unified Communication is the solution to deliver such values of connectivity more simply and easily with unified interface for communication and collaboration. Ericsson-LG Enterprise s UCS is a server based application which provides single point of communication customised for SMB environment.Businesses are getting more and more demanding on multimedia communication and seamless connection. Server based directory and presence database push required information to clients so that each clients can optimise their communication by setting Individual Call Routing table through GUI. Application sharing, multi party video and audio conference also support your business for collaboration ahead of competitors. Integrated with 3rd party application makes you to use the same and more integrated features without changing any of you good old habits.UC integrates Outlook scheduler and 3rd party DB integration such as Outlook, ACT!, Goldmine and MS Excel forms. In addition, the Mobile client enhances the communication and collaboration experience to mobile environment.iPECS UCS Optimise your business communications Unified Communications Solution, iPECS UCS iPECS UCS is a powerful multimedia collaboration and productivity enhancing application which is exclusively designed for small and medium sized businesses. Users can experience powerful UC solutions without concerns over expenses thanks to a single server architecture.iPECS UCS is an unified communications application that enables users to boost up their productivity from anywhere with any devices. Recently, distributed work environment has posed significant challenges for employees, and making it harder to stay connected. Effective and efficient communications are critical for all businesses to better serve their customers, stay competitive in market and to expand their global presence.iPECS UCS streamlines communications and enhances productivity with unifying presence, instant messaging, voice, video, audio/video conference, sharing features and so on. All collaboration tools are provided to ensure secure delivery of messages to a variety of devices including desktop, tablet and smart phone. The flexible deployment model allows users to communicate and collaborate more effectively as long as they stay connected on the Internet, creating ubiquitous working environment.No communication delays with integrated presence iPECS UCS enables users to see the availability of colleagues within and outside their organisation. Users can immediately see who is an offline, available, away, on a call, or DND status. In addition, users can create customised availability status as adding a sentence on your presence, such as I ll be back on 30 minutes . As realising MS Outlook synchronisation, MS Outlook s contacts and schedule are synchronised with iPECS UCS s presence information. In contact list on MS Outlook or iPECS UCS, users can easily initiate communications with multiple options. These features help reduce communication delays.Instant Messaging and Flexibility among Collaboration Tools Instant messaging is one of the most fundamental and important collaborative tools that in today s fiercely competitive business environment. iPECS UCS allows users to set up multiple chat room on a personal, group, and persistent basis so that they are able to instantly reach colleagues or business partners.The chat history function allows users to track and trace the history of prior chats and messages for convenience purposes. In a bid to provide further flexibility, instant messaging is integrated with other communication capabilities so users can simply go back and forth between chats, audio conversations, and conferences. Plus, users can notify their availability status and send instant messages to people outside their organisation. iPECS UCS guarantees highly efficient, secure, flexible and borderless collaboration.Improve team performance with audio and video conferencing iPECS UCS provides audio and video conferencing collaboration for escalating team performance. Audio conference system is built into iPECS UCS desktop client for ease of use. With graphical user interface, users can easily initiate audio conferencing through drag and drop way. For more high class collaboration, iPECS UCS offers video conferencing feature. During video conferencing, efficient collaboration features are provided such as sharing(documents, presentations and desktop), web push, whiteboard and so on. (video conferencing supports up to nine parties and eight groups)Efficient Investment for Diverse Business Environment iPECS UCS provides two types of clients which consider customer s business size. iPECS UCS Standard is built into the iPECS UC platforms. As a built in services with iPECS UC platforms, customers can save the costs for additional H/W server or installations. With standard version, users can use instant messaging(IM), audio, video, audio conference, visual voice mail(VVM) as well as voice calling all on one platform.In case of iPECS UCS Premium, it needs an external UCS server which provides additional and enhanced collaboration features. With advanced features and collaboration tools, user s productivity will be highly increased. As we considered various business sizes and customer s efficient investment, we divided iPECS UCS as standard and premium with suitable collaboration features. Customers can make the most optimal investment dedicated to serving their specific needs.IP PABX &amp; MS lync integration iPECS RCC Gateway solution for linkage with Microsoft Lync composed with RCC Gateway and RCC Client . It s possible to outgoing/incoming call with simple click. iPECS RCC Gateway solution s various scenario and features increasing staff s productivity and efficiency.RCC Client enables you to:Link with both desk phone and Lync client presenceDesk phone control in RCC ClientiPECS Click Call Significant change in your office communications iPECS ClickCall is a smart application used to make communications Simpler and easier when working with a PC. All you need to do is drag a telephone number from any Windows Application such as a web site, Windows document or any application Running on your PC. You don t need to memorise a phone number to make a call from a Desktop phone. You can even reduce the chances of delays or mistakes Made by pressing buttons when making a call in desktop phone. You will be satisfied with the result of a very simple and small change.iPECS Attendant More Calls, Better Service iPECS Attendant is the IP attendant console with soft phone function, hotel features and an improved user interface. Based on the iPECS Platforms that integrated with iPECS Attendant, the supported features are various.FeaturesEmbedded softphone functionsOperating without the need for an external phoneHigh quality voice communications using PCEasy to use interfaceOptional station field display mode: icon or list typeIntuitive display icons: Monitoring window, Queue window and tool barBusy Lamp Field (BLF) and status information displayLocal language selectionShortcut keys for frequently used functionsPre-selected and customised station status message settingStation setting modification: station name, COS, Temporary COS, attendant cancel, music selectionAttendant status change: Day / Night / On demand / Weekend / Auto ring / ForwardSimple directory/database managementLocal phone book import and exportDatabase and system component back up to the local hard disk driveMultiple local database interfacePhone book management: register / edit / delete, 17 database fields, dynamic search / sort / filterVarious options for conducting queriesMore productivity enhancementsInternal Text messages can be sent and receivedWake-up call management: Multiple wake-up, Group set, Optional setMultiple attendantsTrunk monitoringMaking outbound call: keypad dialing, click to call from the phone book, station icon, log viewSuperb statistical reporting of all callsHospitality featuresCheck in / out, wake up call, room status, room cut off, etc.iPECS Attendant Hotel for basic PMS functionality with iPECS UCP / MGCheck-out billing service, Custom billing formatSystem Information update in real-time (PMS DB sync)DND service, message serviceRoom class (COS) setting, Room changeiPECS Network Management Solution powerful multi-site monitoring and management iPECS NMS is a powerful web based Network Management tool designed for SMB to improve its staff efficiency, permit rapid response to system alarms, and optimise system resources with remote access, usage statistics and automated alarm notification.Fault management and realtime system monitoring iPECS NMS monitors registered systems in real-time to deliver fault and alarm event statistics. The NMS Server generates automatic e-mail alerts of fault and alarm defined as critical by the system manager. In addition, while on-line, NMS Server can be configured to notify the NMS Web client while the manager works on other PC tasks. Managers can thus identify critical issues with monitored systems implementing corrective measures before the faults become service affecting or even noticed by usersInventory management iPECS NMS monitors and maintains a list of the resources and components for all registered systems. The list includes the call server, each gateway, terminals and even soft-phones as well as software associated with each system and component.