IT S a dramatic over Zimbabwe will remember for a long time and, for good measure too. And this is how it unfolded at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo on Saturday. 49.1 Tiripano to Holder, 1 run, fuller ball outside off, drills it to sweeper cover. Singles will do it for West Indies 49.2 Tiripano to CR Brathwaite, OUT, kind of a needless shot with three needed off five. It was a slower ball from Tiripano. Legcutter on a length and Brathwaite tries to swat it with a flat bat. It was a low percentage shot and he skews it to long-on, much to the delight of a large section of the crowd CR Brathwaite c Williams b Tiripano 9 (12m 5b 0&#215;4 1&#215;6) SR: 180.00Ashley Nurse is the new man in, but Holder on strike as the batsmen had crossed over.49.3 Tiripano to Holder, OUT, oh, what terrible luck. Run out at the non-striker s end. It was a fuller ball and Holder makes good connection on the forward push and the ball goes on the bounce towards the bowler who tries to stop it with outstretched hands. But it goes off the finger and crashes into the stumps with Nurse out of the crease as he was backing away. What drama! AR Nurse run out 0 (1m 0b 0&#215;4 0&#215;6) SR: -49.4 Tiripano to Holder, 1 leg bye, back of a length, outside off, looks to play across the line but it brushes the thigh and goes fine of short third manTwo off two. Zimbabwe s players get together for a chat.49.5 Tiripano to Carter, 1 run, chance at deep square leg, did it carry to Chibhabha? It was a legcutter on a short of good length and Carter pulls it. It seems like it carried to the fielder who makes a brilliant effort as he dives forward. Unfortunately for Zimbabwe, he does not manage to grab it. But a superb effort as he did not allow the ball to go to the boundary. Those catches are always tricky and it is easy to miss the catch and let the ball escape from in between. Scores level now.49.6 Tiripano to Holder, OUT, unbelievable scenes at Queens. What a match! Zimbabwe are leaping in joy an why wouldn t they! This has been a remarkable fightback. But let s not forget to give credit to the bowler. What a superb delivery under pressure. Fires it very full and outside off, just around the line forcing the batsman to reach out. Holder can t make contact but Carter sets off for the run from the non-striker s end. The wicketkeeper has a shy at the stumps and Carter is caught short. An inch outside and it could have been a wide. A perfect last delivery and full marks to Tiripano JL Carter run out 1 (4m 1b 0&#215;4 0&#215;6) SR: 100.00 Cricinfo.