BATTERED AND BRUISED . . . FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza s left hand is bandaged after he was hit by a missile thrown from the stands in yesterday s Castle Lager Premiership tie between his club and Highlanders at MandavaPaul Mundandi in ZVISHAVANEFC Platinum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0)3Highlanders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0FC Platinum survived in the first half before exploding in the second to destroy Highlanders at Mandava yesterday and keep alive their championship hopes. The home team s victory was spoiled by violence in the stands as some Bosso fans lost their cool and rained missiles, one of which hit FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza who needed treatment. The home team s defender Kelvin Moyo s wife was also injured by the missiles.Gerald Takwara scored in the 50th minute, Walter Musona in the 71st minute and Charles Sibanda right at the end provided the goals on a day when the heavens also opened at Mandava.Mapeza was hit with a stone in the 72nd minute, minutes after Musona had scored the second goal. Is this football? A family environment was turned into a war zone, said Mapeza. I was hit by a stone on the shoulder from the back and I am feeling some pain. I am impressed that my guys worked so hard and all we need to do is to work even harder and register a win against Tsholotsho then see what happens. A well taken corner kick from the right by Rodwell Chinyengetere was met by Takwara whose header went home. Musona then doubled the tally when he was sent through by substitute Sibanda on the left.The goal incensed Bosso fans who then started throwing missiles onto the pitch. It was then compounded by a downpour that saw the fans invading the stand that was housing the FC Platinum fans.Some fans even crossed through the pitch, taking the SuperSport speakers in the process forcing referee Norman Matemera to stop the match for six minutes. Erol Akbay, the Highlanders coach whose side had controlled the first half, conceded defeat. Our season is over. We will see what happens next season and I will see what type of players I will get. We had the chance to be champions. We gave FC Platinum a lot of space and they were very lucky. They scored and it ended our hopes. We had a very bright chance of winning the league, but we blew it away today, said the Bosso coachTeamsFC Platinum: P Mhari, I Nekati, G Bello, K Moyo, E Moyo, W Mhango, R Chinyengetere(N Masuku 88th min), G Takwara, W Musona (M Kawashu 81st min), T Rukanda (C. Sibanda 35th min), M MudehweHighlanders: A Sibanda, R Kutsanzira, S Munawa, P Dube, G Makaruse,T Ndlovu (B Banda 76th min),P Muduwa,T Ngulube, H Moyo, E Mudzingwa, R Matema(A Gahadzikwa 63rd min)