VP MphokoProsper Ndlovu in Mzola, LupaneZIMBABWE S pioneer gas project in Lupane, Matabeleland North, is ready for commercial exploitation after successful production tests indicated the country could be a regional giant in green energy production. Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko yesterday visited the gas fields at Siwale area in Mzola, Lupane, where Discovery Resources has set up a plant to exploit the natural resource.Thousands of people are expected to be employed when exploitation of gas reserves is at full throttle, VP Mphoko said.The production of gas in Lupane will result in increased investment in power generation.Initial plans indicate that up to 30MW of electricity could be produced from the plant. This is a low hanging fruit that is ready to be utilised. Production is there as we have seen and all what we need to do is change of some policies somewhere, but otherwise this product is ready, said the Vice President.VP Mphoko expressed concern over delays in bringing the project to fruition and blamed communication breakdown between relevant ministries in facilitating a quick take-off. We cannot say much now because inyoni ayikhulunyelwa emasekweni ngoba iyathutha. But this is a wonderful project. It is one of the best we have and Zimbabwe is blessed by having such a project. If this project is allowed to work well it will employ a number of people. We are talking about electricity generation, diesel and petrol as well as production of fertiliser, said VP Mphoko after touring the production site.The VP, who was accompanied by Provincial Minister Cain Mathema, Deputy Minister of Mines and Mining Development Fred Moyo, area MP Martin Khumalo and executives from Discovery Resources, was taken through the production process during which engineers explained the technical aspects of the new industry.A big gas-powered generator was already working on site providing electricity to the plant.Minister Mathema said the exploitation of gas in Lupane would have a huge impact on the economy, and this will have a direct impact on the province s development.Deputy Minister Moyo said Matabeleland North is endowed with natural resources that should see the province taking a giant leap when it comes to development. We have demarcated this area into blocks, and we have about seven companies that have got coal concessions. This concession belongs to Discovery Resources and they have been working here, doing exploration work for five to six years, which has led to production testing we are seeing today. We have three holes and this testing has indicated that we can actually produce this gas on a commercial scale, he said.One of the key shareholders Mr Thabani Lloyd Hove told VP Mphoko that the firm was ready to roll but needed more investment to boost production capacity and expand the value chain.He revealed that their plans were to increase the number of extraction holes from the three pilot holes to at least 20, which would boost output.