LONDON. Jose Mourinho has been charged with misconduct following his sending-off during Manchester United s goalless draw with Burnley on Saturday. Mourinho is now facing a minimum one-match touchline ban after being slapped with a misconduct charge by the Football Association.The Portuguese coach was dismissed from the technical area when he complained to referee Mark Clattenburg at half-time after the official chose not to award United a penalty when Matteo Darmian went down in the area following a clash with Jon Flanagan.Although the Portuguese did appear from the tunnel for the second half, it quickly became clear he had been sent off when he went on to take a seat among fans next to the dugout.A statement from the FA yesterday afternoon read: Jose Mourinho has been charged with misconduct following Manchester United s game against Burnley on Saturday (29 October 2016). It is alleged that in or around the tunnel area at half-time he used abusive and/or insulting words towards a Match Official. He has until 6pm on 4 November 2016 to respond to the charge. Insulting language and/or abusive language sits in a higher band than a general misconduct charge, such as the one given to Mark Hughes earlier this season, with the standard penalty a fine and one-match touchline ban if it is accepted by the manager. Should Mourinho fail in appealing that charge, though, his punishment will increase to a two-match touchline ban. Mourinho also faces a potential misconduct charge from the FA for the comments he made about referee Anthony Taylor before United s game against Liverpool on October 17 and had until 6pm on Monday to respond.Mourinho s ire was focused on Clattenburg s refusal to award a penalty after Flanagan s challenge Matteo Darmian.The Portuguese exchanged words with the official in the Old Trafford tunnel as United emerged from the break.Mourinho had until six o clock on Monday evening to respond to a separate charge of misconduct following comments made about Taylor s selection as referee for the draw at Liverpool.It is understood he faces a fine, while an FA commission should sit to pass judgement before the end of this week.Mourinho claimed the Manchester-based referee would find officiating last week s away trip to Liverpool difficult . He was responding to former referees chief Keith Hackett questioning Taylor s appointment, who cited his close proximity to Old Trafford as reason not to be handed the fixture.It has been a tough start to life at Old Trafford for Mourinho, who has come under pressure following a lacklustre run of results over the past month.The Red Devils were comprehensively beaten by Chelsea before bouncing back with a 1-0 win against rivals Manchester City in the EFL Cup. Then followed the game against Burnley, in which United had 37 shots on target but failed to find the back of the net. Sky Sports.