Plot MhakoTawanda Marwizi : Arts CorrespondentTHE Jibilika dance festival that was held in Mutare over the weekend was marred with chaos as some groups protested over the results, The Herald Review has learnt. Sources said the competition went well until final results were announced prompting people to throw missiles on stage. A Harare group Lethal Fam Crew were announced as the winners of this year s dance competition. People contested the results as they felt some groups were robbed. Things turned nasty resulting in a premature end, the source revealed.He added that the announcement of the winners was confusing. Things went wrong when judges chose the winners. They even confused themselves when they seemingly failed to agree on winners prompting the crowd to throw cans on stage, he said.The source said musicians who were billed to perform at the after party could not make it because of the incident.Hip-hop musician Takura Tendayi, Sharky, Tytan and Sylent among others could not perform despite being available at the venue.Jibilika Dance Trust founder Plot Mhako confirmed the incident saying it was just unfortunate that there was a group that failed to accept the results. We had a tie and the judges requested for a battle (which is traditional) and one crew emerged. Yes one of the local groups had rowdy fans who did not take their loss lightly and only one fan threw an empty bottle at the MC not the judges, said Mhako.He said they could not go ahead with the after party. Yes after the festival we were supposed to host an after party with several artistes and I took a conscious security decision not to go ahead with the after party, said Mhako.The competition saw groups Lixon Scorpions from Bulawayo, Super Geeks, Megatrones of Masvingo, Prototypes (Gweru), DT Foxes (Kwekwe), Flame House (Kadoma), The Ninjas of Mutare, Reflections, Juveniles, Clarks Warri Crew from Bindura, B Street, Two na Flex of Marondera, Unit Edge (Chitungwiza), XFM (Harare,) Lethal Fam and House of Animates competing for the crown.Mhako said despite the disturbances this year s competition was a success.