Cde KasukuwereAbel Zhakata in Checheche, Chipinge zanu-pf has accorded district heroes status to six Chipinge youth party members who died in a tragic accident on Sunday while returning from Gaza Stadium where they had attended the launch of the residential stands programme in the district. Addressing mourners at a funeral parade at Checheche Growth Point yesterday, national political commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere said the six were befitting heroes who died while working for the party and country at large. I have been sent by President Mugabe to convey zanu-pf s condolences to the six families who lost their loved ones. zanu-pf is grieving with you during these dark times. These deceased young people represented the aspirations of all youths who are here. They are our heroes and the party has seen it fit to accord them the district heroes status. They will be accorded a befitting burial. What we must remember is that these cadres perished while on duty to empower the youths. They were doing it for the benefit of the country, he said.Cde Kasukuwere said the party would assist the families of the late heroes by providing them with decent accommodation as well as paying fees for school-going children who were left behind.The six Peter Ndlovu, Jimmy Hletsiwa, Phenias Kazende, Douglas Mashava, Tawengwa Zimhira and Driver Murambo died after the boards of a lorry they were travelling in opened resulting in them falling on the tarmac.Thirty-four other passengers were injured and some of them are admitted at Chipinge District Hospital and Mutare Provincial Hospital respectively. Cde Kasukuwere said the party would meet hospital bills for those still admitted to hospital as well as acquiring medicines. Speaking at the same occasion national secretary for youth affairs, Cde Kudzai Chipanga, said the death of the six youths shocked the party. We have lost hardworking cadres. This type of incident where we lose six members at once is one of its kind. We are shocked, but we must not lose sight. Instead, we must move on and advance what these fallen cadres were fighting for. They were fighting for the empowerment of youths and their good deeds must not die, he said.Cde Chipanga urged local authorities who will be distributing residential stands to do so in a transparent manner. He said families of the late heroes must be the first to benefit from the stands programme they died championing for. After the parade the six were buried at Checheche District Heroes Acre where thousands of mourners converged to give them a resounding send-off.The burial was also attended by Minister of State for Manicaland Provincial Affairs, Cde Mandi Chimene, Zanu-PF Manicaland provincial chairman, Dr Samuel Undenge, Minister of Youth, Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment, Cde Patrick Zhuwao, Chipinge South legislator, Cde Enock Porusingazi, Buhera South legislator, Cde Joseph Chinotimba and several other party members.