Bishop B. Manjoro DunamisWe have gone past the first three quarters of the year. We are getting in the 10th month and I declare double portion grace! Whatever was stuck, whatever was not moving and refusing to respond in the last months, I m declaring the grace of God in the last three months of this year of a double portion! Probably you are depressed, weak, low and discouraged by the situation in your family, at work, in your finances or things robbing you of peace and joy I have a word for you, double portion grace is heading your way! Seasons are shifting! Things are reversing! It s your turn now, grace is coming your way! Your summer is now! O hallelujah! And David said, is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul, that I may shew him kindness for Jonathan s sake . . . Then king David sent, and fetched him out of the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, from Lodebar. Now when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, was come unto David, he fell on his face, and did reverence. And David said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold thy servant! And David said unto him, Fear not: for I will surely shew thee kindness for Jonathan thy father s sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul thy father; and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. And he bowed himself, and said, What is thy servant, that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am? 2 Samuel 9:1 &amp; 5-8.Mephibosheth Jonathan s son and Saul s grandson was of royal blood yet he did not know it but was lame, suffering and lodging somewhere in little village of Lodebar! He was of royal blood but had never experienced what it is to be in the palace or to live like a king s heir. Where he was living was a forgotten village, destroyed after the war but had a few people. He was told; you were once a king s grandson and you were actually in line to become king. Yet his present state was miserable. Friend, this can just like you now, the enemy crippled you and wants you to suffer like Mephibosheth. The enemy took your good job, fumbled your project, hijacked your dreams and finances, locked your marriage but 000 enough is enough. You are not remaining that way! These last three months of the year, double portion of grace is yours! O hallelujah!One day King David remembered Jonathan his friend, who had done him good and made a covenant together to take care of each other s families. Saul and Jonathan had died in war but the covenant had not died. David asked is there anyone left of Saul s house that I may show him kindness for Jonathan s sake. I want to tell you today, where you are now is not the end, it s just the beginning of something better. You could have been fired from your job and you are telling yourself this is the end of the road. I challenge you as a servant of the Lord, this is not the end of the road; it can be the beginning of another road! It could be the road to starting your own business. Mephibosheth felt rejected, unwanted, unloved and a nobody! But little did he know that a double portion of grace was after him.O if only you knew that God s grace is after you. You only know your side of the story; the things that follow your bloodline, the curses, the problems, the debts, the suffering and the tears! You have no idea what God has in mind for you, Jeremiah 29:11. Probably you are browsing this article with not even a cent in your pocket and wondering, where will, I go from here! Double portion of grace will open the door for you! The good thing about grace is that it doesn t care about you having no qualification, having no name, having no things, when it comes, it qualifies you, gives you a name, and causes you to have things. It brings peace, joy, wisdom and the desire of your heart. O if you knew what this grace is bringing in your life you would cheer up and be of good courage. There is something higher for you. If it s financial and money is hiding from you it has to come to you in these last 3 months. What you could not do in past three years you will do in three months! O I like double portion!One day Mephibosheth is minding his own business doing his usual routine, and he sees a man. He was not a local man. He was a messenger who bought some news; Mephibosheth was wanted by the King at the palace. He was afraid and did not know what to do or say. When the king told him from this day you shall eat at my table and live in the palace, Mephibosheth could not believe it! Him living in the palace? And he said what is thy servant, that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am? He saw himself as a dog and nobody. Whoever you are and reading this right now, never call yourself a dog, worse off a dead dog. You are not inferior; you are not useless double portion grace is yours right now! Something is in the pipe-line.Something good, something that is going to change your situation, to change your crying into laughter! The time has come for you to start climbing up the ladder! It s not just time to enjoy church, to enjoy preachers, conferences and the things of God, No. It s time to enjoy church yes and also to climb up the ladder and progress to the next dimension. You must go higher!But bishop how can you say such good things as if you don t know what is happening now? Let me answer you with God s wisdom; what is happening now is the thundering and lightnings of summer! It s a sign that summer is around the corner! Good things are about to happen! Yes the thunder and lightning is scary and may break a few trees and walls but the message behind is that summer has come!Your summer is at hand! Double portion of grace is locating you right now and taking you to the next level of your life. God is about to do something good in your life. Stop crying and looking at the negative things summer has come, double portion grace is yours! For with God all things are possible, mark10:27