MANCHESTER. Jose Mourinho has been warned not to shore up his crumbling Manchester United empire by trying to turn it into his personal fiefdom . As his reign lurches towards the first rumblings of crisis, Old Trafford baron Ron Atkinson fears Mourinho could resort to familiar devices by creating a claustrophobic environment at the club. Three defeats in eight days, culminating in Sunday s shock 3-1 embarrassment at Watford, has punctured the early-season optimism. Referee Michael Oliver was among boss Mourinho s latest scapegoats at Vicarage Road, and Big Ron says United are unsuited to the Special One s barricades and insularity. Little more than a shanked Wayne Rooney cross from Old Trafford, where he was launching his autobiography, two-time FA Cup winner Atkinson said: I have never been a huge fan of this siege mentality he brings to his clubs. There s nothing wrong with being fiercely protective of your players, but that doesn t mean you have to antagonise everybody else. As I say in the book, I don t think that approach would work at Manchester United because it can lead to the club becoming claustrophobic. It is a global brand and you cannot run it as your personal fiefdom. United is an expansive club, it s a club of the people. Telling everyone that It s us against the world doesn t really wash, because United have lots of friends they probably have more fans on the planet than anyone else. Jose has an engaging personality and it would be a shame if he got sidetracked by siege mentality and taking on the world. Mourinho s aura of invincibility has been shaken by 14 defeats in his last 32 games as a manager at Chelsea and United.He had made a promising start until Pep Guardiola, his old nemesis in Spain when they were arch-rivals at Real Madrid and Barcelona, trumped him again in the Manchester derby. Mourinho has won only three of his 17 meetings with new City boss and English Premier League front runner Guardiola, and Atkinson, now 77, admitted: I was surprised by the way United played in the derby. All credit to City, who look phenomenal, but I thought Jose would have set up his team to play higher up the pitch. It would have been an eye-opener for him to see the way City went about it, with David Silva and Kevin De Bruyne finding pockets of space. United were never outnumbered in midfield, but they were outmanoeuvred. You can t imagine that scenario if Roy Keane and Paul Scholes had been playing. For the first 10 minutes, they would have announced themselves, and tried to break up the little triangles City were forming, and I didn t see that in Jose s team in the derby. Big Ron, who won the FA Cup twice in five years at United, believes Mourinho was the author of his own downfall at Chelsea last season. In his colourful memoir, Atkinson says: I don t think his treatment of the club doctor, Eva Carneiro, helped him but I don t think it was the root cause of Chelsea s collapse. When they won the title, Chelsea limped rather than stormed over the line, and when Mourinho spent money in the summer of 2015 it was on footballers who disappeared without trace. Radamel Falcao and Pedro made no real impact. So you ended up with the same players who had finished the previous season with momentum draining out of them, who were in a claustrophobic dressing room and who were probably annoyed about the treatment handed out to the club doctor. That is a recipe for collapse. The Mirror.&nbsp;