Bernard Bwoni Correspondent One former follower of Evan Mawarire, LadyKris Tina, posted a detailed video on Facebook expressing deep dissatisfaction with the so-called #ThisFlag.LadyKris Tina was evidently frustrated that the citizens movement had been hijacked and she said that when she called the Pastor to speak to him, she was told that everything was now being done through David Coltart. So basically for citizens to gain access to Evan, they had to go through Coltart. In the excellent video, LadyKris Tina can be heard asking who this David Coltart was and she expressed frustrations at the direction of the movement since Evan went to America.LadyKris Tina is heard saying When you left Zimbabwe, your game and message changed and from information I have, the Pastor you were paid. #ThisFlag was a business arrangement, otherwise you would not have done it for free . LadyKris Tina went on to lament, If I knew in the end I will be reporting to David Coltart, then I would not have joined this flag (#ThisFlag). All I want to know from Pastor is, asi vatengesa nyika here? The frustrations with this flag (#ThisFlag) movement has been a recurring theme among the followers who have been quite angry at being used by Evan. Ever since he moved to US, there has been a dramatic shift in Evan Mawarire s demands to the Government of Zimbabwe on behalf of the citizens . Originally the demands were mainly No to Bond Notes , No to Statutory Instrument 64:2016 , No to police roadblocks and now it has suddenly shifted to No to extending of credit lines to Zimbabwe by the IMF and World Bank . It then makes you wonder who really is pulling the strings and to what end? Now the excessively and inappropriately extroverted Patson Dzamara has handed a petition or letter to the World Bank on behalf of the whole of Zimbabwe to deny the extending of any credit lifelines by the World Bank.So Evan was invited to the Atlantic Council for an audience with his backers and stakeholders. The discussion was hollow and full of holes.He was laying the ground work for an economic and political assault on Zimbabwe with the assistance and financial muscle of his backers. Evan was basically appealing for some form of intervention from his predominantly American audience. At no point did this holy man of God use this ideal platform to challenge the USA s over its decade-long economic embargo against Zimbabwe. These are the very same economic sanctions that have caused untold suffering to the people of Zimbabwe. These are the same economic sanctions that continue to strangulate the nation and its long suffering people. Instead, Evan s call was to say I am here to invite anyone who wants to help us to come and help us . So Pastor Evan Mawarire had a conversation at the Atlantic Council moderated by one Ms Chloe McGrath. What a revealing conversation that was and this man of cloth is punching way above his light belt. These are his exact words I am here to invite anyone who wants to help us to come and help us . He did not specify what that help he was seeking from the Atlantic Council was, but history has taught us of the real powers behind little activists from developing countries like Zimbabwe and the sort of help they will offer . This whole discussion was just way out of Evan s intellectual reach and he was just muddling himself throughout the hour long cry for intervention in Zimbabwe to remove the current government.He then made a chilling warning that if we cannot change the politicians, then we have to inspire the citizens to be bold . This Atlantic Council address or discussion or whatever it was, was a prelude to the damage these nut jobs masquerading as Activists and Pastors have in store for the already economically incapacitated nation of Zimbabwe.At his Atlantic Council prep for destabilisation of Zimbabwe session, Evan made a claim that he now felt that the Zimbabwe flag was a fraud . When he addressed a handful of people near the UN Headquarters in New York recently in yet another poorly attended call to destabilise Zimbabwe disguised as a protest against President Mugabe, Evan made this ridiculous statement We gave them our flag and they have embarrassed what this flag stands for. Today we are taking this flag back and saying you are a government we no longer trust. You are a far worse oppressor than Ian Smith . This Evan has been contradicting and counter contradicting himself even since he began abusing our national flag for his our self-serving ends. Now let s revisit his Atlantic Council address only a week or so ago where this man who is now claiming that this government and President Mugabe are far worse oppressors than Ian Smith. He was decrying the lack of freedom and rule of law in Zimbabwe yet he had this to say We are not afraid to speak the truths no matter who you are because we have a Constitution that allows us to freely express ourselves and speak the truth . How contradictory is that?First and foremost Evan needs to be reminded and educated on the sanctity of the Zimbabwe national flag so as to harness the vitriol he continues to spew against our sacred symbol. Those five distinct colours that make up the Zimbabwe national flag convey the sacrifices, the struggles, the ideas, the ambitions, values, beliefs, the people, the land and the wealth of the country. The colours on that flag present us with the true definition of the country s struggles, sacrifices of many, the triumph, the inspiration, the outlook, the hope, the potential and the journey the country embarked on. A traumatic passage to freedom, from the brutality of colonialism to the bitter liberation struggle and that priceless day on 18th April 1980.It is because of the liberation of Zimbabwe that Zimbabweans can freely raise that flag, wrap it around their bodies and stride with pride in a free Zimbabwe and abroad as Evan and his entourage of nut-cases are doing in New York. Evan s unholy call on citizens to take back or reclaim the national flag stinks of insincerity and design. The national flag was presented to all Zimbabweans with the ushering in of independence, and as such there is no and will never be any taking back or reclamation of the national flag . The national flag is here and here to stay. Evan is free to wear the America flag or Union Jack if that is what he prefers and stop abusing our national flag.These are the usual irrelevant stunts by some individuals who may seek publicity. To categorically state that the integrity of the national flag has been compromised is highly calculating and crafty.There is no one who can compromise the national flag and there is no one who has sole stewardship of the national flag. So any antics claiming to reclaim the national flag should just be dismissed for the gimmicks they are.So in conversation at the Atlantic Council with Ms McGrath, the whole Atlantic Council charade is when he was basically told to go to the offices of the IMF and World Bank to campaign against any form of debt clearance strategies for Zimbabwe. Here is how the idea was put forward to him If Zimbabwe s debts are cleared then floodgates of billions of dollars in new lending will become available to Zimbabwe. So what are you and other Zimbabweans going to do about that seeing that there are still human rights violations in Zimbabwe? Now this question needed a very smart Zimbabwean to answer and unfortunately by his own admission, Pastor Evan is not a man of vast educational assumptions (his exact words not mine). He failed to answer this question with the intelligence required and his only response was that he would pay the IMF and World Bank a visit and speak to someone about this .He went on about police brutality in Zimbabwe and he forgot that he was in America, where police brutality was invented.Now following that very specific and strategic direction disguised as a question, an entourage led by the attention-seeking Dzamara found its way to New York to protest against President Mugabe .I am going to be brutally blunt here, and categorically say that Dzamara is a blunt tool and nothing else beyond that. He is a vulgar attention seeking little man who is deluded to think that he can go to the World Bank and speak on behalf of the whole over 13 million citizens of Zimbabwe. I said he is vulgar and here is why. When was addressing a handful of people in New York gathered near the UN Headquarters, this is what he had to say We are no longer going to allow Robert Mugabe and his minions to continue urinating on our heads . Now who uses such words in a public address seriously except for this vile little attention seeker. And where and when did he obtain the consensus of the whole of Zimbabwe to go and petition the World Bank to deny the Government of Zimbabwe lines of credit? Who does he think he is? This brazen and wanton disregard of consultation and consensus on the part of activists like Patson and Evan points to a sharp shift from the democratic ideals that these same activists and the opposition claim to champion and repeatedly accuse the government of having abandoned. Patson in his letter to the World Bank wrote It is with growing concern and dismay that the citizens of Zimbabwe are observing our government s re-engagement with the international community, more specifically institutions as your own . And he went on to conclude his written delusions of grandeur by saying It is therefore with confidence in the justness of our cause and trust that your institution would not commit such an irresponsible mistake, that I ask on behalf of my organisation, our friends and partners and Zimbabwe as a whole, that you would not extend a financial lifeline to an administration culpable of such crimes against its own citizens .This guy has just walked into the offices of the World Bank to begged for the economic shackles around Zimbabwe to remain. This little man, this little vile nonentity has just asked for the extension of the economic sanctions. These are acts of economic terrorism against the country.