Innocent Ruwende Senior Reporter Zimbabwe yesterday experienced a partial solar eclipse at 9:40am for the second consecutive year.The partial eclipse is the edge of an annular eclipse that will be best seen from eastern central Africa and parts of Asia. A solar eclipse occurs when the moon passes between the earth and the sun, thereby totally or partially obscuring earth s view of the sun.Chief meteorological officer Mr Jonathan Chifuna, said for yesterday it was the moon that came between the sun and the earth. The eclipse was partial, it did not cover the whole sun. It was seen in most parts of the country. It started at 9.40am in the morning with a maximum occurring at 10.58am and ended at 12.47am. The last eclipse, which occurred in the country was on September 13 last year that was also a partial eclipse occurring at 06:55 that was in the morning. We can expect another eclipse coming next year on February 26. It will be again a partial eclipse, he said.Mr Chifuna said during the eclipse, temperatures became low with Harare recording a maximum temperature of 17 degrees Celsius although it was sunny. It was just a temporary thing. Temperatures started picking up as the day went on. It is advised not to look directly onto the sun because it will be very bright and can cause damage to your retina therefore you should use coloured glass or foil paper to look at the sun, he said.The solar eclipse was not only confined to Zimbabwe as it was also experienced in most parts of Africa.The annular solar eclipse was more visible in Madagascar and locations in Central Africa and for most viewers in Africa it was partial solar eclipse.In 2002, Zimbabwe experienced a total solar eclipse for the second year running.The eclipse was mostly experienced in Beitbridge, Kezi and Plumtree in Matabeleland South.Other areas that include Bulawayo, Chiredzi, Victoria Falls, Hwange, Gwanda and West Nicholson were covered between 98 percent and 99,6 percent while Harare was covered 89,2 percent.