Sports ReporterDEPLETED CAPS United are likely to call on Dominic Chungwa to help boost their strikeforce this afternoon when they host Tsholotsho in the first round of the Chibuku Super Cup at the National Sports Stadium Makepekepe are struggling with injuries to key players in their squad and the unavailability of chief striker Leonard Tsipa through a back problem could have left the technical team with few options upfront. The Green Machine are missing as many as five players who include skipper Moses Muchenje, Tafadzwa Rusike, Abbas Amidu, Archford Gutu and Tsipa.Rookie forward Amon Kambanje should have recovered and it seems the dice for the starting places upfront today might fall on him and Simba Nhivi, but with no proper back-up.Team manager Shakespeare Chinogwenya confirmed yesterday that the injured players had failed to recover on time for the game.This has prompted the technical team to consider Chungwa who, nonetheless, has not been in the Green Machine fold in the last two weeks. Chungwa was earmarked to join South Africa Division One side Bush Bucks, but the move failed to materialise after the sides failed to agree on conditions of the transfer. No one among our injured players has recovered. So it means we will be missing four to five players for this match, said Chinogwenya. But at the end of the day a strong team is needed for every game that we play. So we have players like Dominic, he is still one of us. He is very much part of the team and could be an option since he was also training where he was. However, Chungwa has not trained with the team since his return from South Africa and might feature as a substitute.Makepekepe coach Lloyd Chitembwe still sounded positive despite the injuries that have wreaked havoc in their camp. That has always been the case. week in, week out we always miss important players, but the good thing is we are not the kind of team that moan over missing players, he said.CAPS United have beaten Tsholotsho back-to-back this year and they go into the match as strong favourites. The Green Machine, who are also in the hunt for the league championship will be targeting a positive start to set the tone for a possible double this year.But Tsholotsho coach Lizwe Sweswe warned the hosts that they should expect a tough afternoon. It is always a challenge to play a team like CAPS United because they are one of the big teams in Zimbabwe. But our win in the last game was crucial in that we needed that self-belief, the belief that we can win games. At least the boys have that confidence. We cannot lose three times to the same team this year. So we will have to fight hard because we also want to proceed to the next round in this competition. CAPS United can underrate us at their own peril, said Sweswe.Newboys Ngezi Platinum are also looking for a bright start in their first cup competition in the Premiership.Their coach Tonderai Ndiraya yesterday sounded upbeat after starting among the seeded teams because of their good position on the log standings at the time of the draw. I think it s a bit tight for us because we are a small team. This is our first time to play in the Cup competitions in the PSL and we are cherishing the opportunity. I m glad we are starting at home and hopefully we will use that advantage. But we also have to consider our opponents Hwange that they have been in the league for years and they know how to handle these cup games because of their vast experience. So we will not put our players under unnecessary pressure. We don t want to be over-ambitious. Our immediate target is to go to the next round, said Ndiraya.Ngezi have been crippled by injuries as they miss key forward Washington Pakamisa, Walter Mukanga, Keith Murera and long term casualty Kumbirai Kapikinyu for the opening match.Log leaders FC Platinum, who are among the favourites for the Chibuku Cup, begin their quest with a tricky Midlands Derby against Chapungu at Mandava this afternoon.Chibuku Super Cup First RoundToday: Ngezi Platinum v Hwange (Baobab), FC Platinum v Chapungu (Mandava), CAPS United v Tsholotsho (National Sports Stadium), ZPC Kariba v Bulawayo City (Nyamhunga)Sunday: Dynamos v How Mine (Rufaro), Triangle v Chicken Inn (Gibbo), Highlanders v Mutare City (Barbourfields)