Lloyd ChitembweGrace Chingoma in KaribaZPC Kariba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0CAPS United . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe was left satisfied after his team picked a point in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Nyamhunga yesterday against ZPC Kariba. On a day that leaders FC Platinum were also held away at Dulibadzimu by Border Strikers, Makepekepe who had been rocked by in-house problems could only manage a draw as they failed to capitalise on the two points that the log leaders dropped in Beitbridge. But Chitembwe said he will still grab the point with both hands and will not look at it as a lost opportunity to reclaim top spot. The most important thing is picking up points and I am satisfied with the performance of the team and their response in this match after the weekend match. This is football and you cannot win all the matches. It is not a chance lost that s what football is all about. Actually we deserve credit for the manner we have managed to reduce the gap. We were trailing them by seven points at one time, but we have managed to reduce that , said Chitembwe.The former midfielder said the race is still on and the team which will avoid any slip ups will go home smiling at the end of the season. I think like I have always said the season is still on, but any team that slips up will rue the opportunity, but for us the most important thing is the point we picked here, said Chitembwe.These two teams failed to separate each other for the second time after they drew 2-2 in Harare in the reverse tie, but yesterday ZPC Kariba coach Sunday Chidzambwa felt hard done by the missed chance by his winger Talent Chawapiwa four minutes before the match.Warriors trialist Chawapihwa found himself with a lot of space on the left after receiving a fine delivery, but somehow hurried his effort. I think it was a balanced match. We did not create many chances, but sometimes in football you should put away that half chance that you get and Talent should have buried that one. But a draw against the team which is second on the log I think it s not a bad result. We played very well in Harare and created a lot of chances unlike today, said Chidzambwa.Chidzanbwa was also full of praises for goalkeeper Takabva Mawaya who stood in for number one Tendai Hove. My goalkeeper is as good as his captain and he does well whenever he is called in for duty. Mawaya is reliable whenever he is called for duty despite him not getting enough game time.Mawaya who is second in charge did well to thwart Leonard Tsipa several times in a game that saw Chidzambwa deploying five defenders.Exciting winger Chawapihwa was a handful to the visitors, but the hosts lacked the final touch especially in the dying minutes when the former had a good chance which was, however, dealt with by the CAPS United defenders.CAPS United had earlier on absorbed the pressure, but regrouped after the breather and Tsipa who was marking his return after being rested in the Chibuku Super Cup defeat to Tsholotsho wasted a good chance to score.&nbsp;TEAMS:ZPC Kariba: T. Mawaya, T. Sweswe (L. Zvasiya 65th min), S. Appiah, B. Mutukure, M. Kumyarimwe, T. Munyanduri, T. Mamvura, G. Mangani (L, Chikafa 78th min), T. Chawapihwa, T. Nyamandwe (L. Fiyado 65th min).CAPS United: J. Muchambo, H. Zvirekwi, R. Pfumbidzai, S. Makatuka, D. Dauda, D. Chafa, P. Bhamusi, J. Ngodzo, L. Tsipa, D. Chungwa (A. Amidu 71st min), S. Nhivi.