 Hungwe by David NgwerumeTawanda Marwizi: Arts CorrespondentAfrican pride and identity has been enhanced by totems that were created by ancient communities to identify people s origins. Many people in Zimbabwe still find pride in being addressed by their totems and the references have also been base to social interactions and relationships. People of the same totem are considered relatives although their families might be distant. Relationships between people of different totems have created a network of interactions and it is common for individuals of different backgrounds to consider themselves related in one way or the other.Such networks are created for easy social interaction within and between communities. People of same totems are said to have similar characteristics and each totem is believed to have a shared trait.Animal names are used to group people of similar origins and it is common for individuals to refer to themselves by an animal name with pride.This fascination with totems has led sculptor David Ngwerume to carve pieces of various animals that are taken to represent totems.By working on these artworks he simply wants to remind how totems are important in our society. Apart from bringing pride and joy they are also very important in unifying the society because at the end of the day everyone becomes your relative, said Ngwerume.The sculptor believes it is the role of every artist to educate the nation especially the young generations about our culture. I have made several stone works of different totems. We have to know where we came from and why we should defend our culture. In his gallery are different sculptures of animals that represent various totems.Among them are elands (mhofu totem) fish (save), lions( shumba), birds (hungwe), baboons (soko) and warthogs (humba).These pieces are all made from springstone. You hear some of our young people saying totems are old-fashioned and belong to old generations yet this is a hereditary phenomenon, he said.Ngwerume is optimistic that through the cultural programmes and works by different artists the mission to preserve our culture will be possible. That will be mission possible and totems should definitely keep our pride as Zimbabweans as well as unify our society, he said.He said several individuals have approached him requesting for sculptures that represent their totems.