Kenny MubaiwaGrace Chingoma : Senior Sports ReporterDYNAMOS will this week begin the process that will culminate in the club parting ways with coach Lloyd Mutasa either at the end of the season or even earlier than that with a new technical team set to be named. The Glamour Boys season effectively ended on Sunday when they crashed out of the Chibuku Super Cup at the first round and they are now set to end the season empty handed. A crisis leadership meeting is set to be held either today or tomorrow to decide the way forward in the wake of the crisis which also saw thousands of their fans staying away from the team s Chibuku Super Cup showdown against How Mine at Rufaro. Things are not okay at all. Results are not coming and this is not the way Dynamos play, club president Kenny Mubaiwa told The Herald. This week we will have a crucial meeting so that come 2017 we will have a new (technical) regime at the club. The first thing we are going to look at in that meeting is the technical team. We need to have one in place in time so that before the season starts they get good players and we will plan on how to get them. So the first thing is the technical team and then the players. As it stands we are out of the race and the major competition so nothing can hold us back in having the new technical team take charge of the team in the remaining matches so that they assess the team and see which areas they need to work on. Mubaiwa refused to reveal the prospective candidates they were considering for the job. We will look at everything, from the results up to the players because our fans and stakeholders are not happy, said Mubaiwa. If it is the technical team which is the problem we will work on it. If it is the players we will work on it as well. Players come and go and so do coaches. I think you will agree with me that things are not okay. Mutasa replaced Portuguese gaffer Paulo Jorge Silva in May.The Glamour Boys were hoping to atone for the poor season by winning the Chibuku Super Cup, but they were eliminated in the first round.Dynamos will resume league action tomorrow with a match against Tsholotsho at Rufaro.The Glamour Boys will be without the duo of defender Marshal Machazane and midfielder Dominic Mukandi, who are suspended while their opponents will be missing Macclive Phiri. They join a long list of players who are suspended for the mid-week games with Chapungu and Harare City also missing two players each.The Sunshine Boys will be without forward Martin Vengesayi and defender Edwin Madhananga when they host Highlanders on Thursday.Chapungu will travel to Ngezi Platinum without Agrippa Peperere and Blessed Mbavarira.Also ruled out is How Mine midfielder Praise Tonha.Fixtures:Wednesday: Ngezi v Chapungu (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v CAPS United (Nyamhunga), Border Strikers v FC Platinum (Dulivadzimu), Bulawayo City v Triangle (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Tsholotsho (Rufaro).Thursday: Chicken Inn v Mutare City Rovers (White City), Harare City v Highlanders (Rufaro), How Mine FC v Hwange (Luveve)