Shepherd Chimururi; Cool Lifestyle CorrespondentHi tech gems!Thanks so much for your encouraging feedback.Last week s instalment on e-learning competitions generated a lot of interest.So the issue here is on competitions and many asked about the age restrictions but good news is it is open to all. Even schools that had not been active on the e-learning front are consulting how they can implement it.Back to business, this week we focusing on computer laboratory safety precautions.The computer laboratory is a very important and delicate environment that require strict safety and maintenance.For this to be ensured, we have follow and adhere to a set of computer laboratory rules.These rules are introduced to make sure the computers and the people have a long and protected lifespan.The computer lab should be kept cool.Computers operate under normal room temperature.The room should not be too hot or too cold.The lab room s floor should be clean, dry and dust free.To ensure this, a clean tiled floor or a carpeted room may be preferable.When cleaning the computer lab one should ensure that there is no dust, moisture, liquids or chalk, thus, a vacuum cleaner may be best in a computer lab.Remember you have to use a smart and soft wiping cloth.Never use a mouse that is larger than your fingers.Use a chair and a desk of your body size which allows you to work with your feet on the ground. The chair should not be too short or too tall and should have a back for resting.Eating and drinking is not allowed in the computer lab. This includes fruits, drinks, water and any other food or drink. The major reason why food is not allowed on the computer is if a drink spills on the keyboard it will malfunction. You get some keys sticking. Food that has crumbs like bread can get under a key that will make it misbehave.It is inevitable that one will have to conduct some lessons in the computer lab. This implies that there is need for a teaching board and some writings thereon. The computer lab should have a plastic or any other smooth board on which a might marker or other technologies may be used to write, draw or demonstrate things during lessons. Writing and erasing information should never release any dust particles like chalk.When at school noise is not acceptable in the computer lab. Noise in this case includes unnecessary talking, walking, dropping objects, typing abnormally, excessive volumes, destructive games or videos etc.Foreign objects are not allowed to be used on the computer like pens, pencils, wire, etc. Make sure all cables are insulated and that they do not criss cross in your path. After you have used your computer every machine should be turn off (shut-down) after use.Computers are turned on by a power button but this should never be used to turn off the machine. The shut-down command accessible on the windows command should be used to shut down any computer at any given time. This causes the machine to crush down.No one is allowed to delete information from the computer unless otherwise if it is given as an instruction. If by chance any user wants to store any files in a lab computer, a folder should be created on the desktop and all files be stored in that one place.Only qualified, certified and authorised persons may connect and disconnect any cables, devices, computers or anything in the computer lab. Everyone else is not allowed to connect or disconnect machines or componentsYou are not allowed to repair, install or troubleshoot computers and systems in the computer lab. Every problem, challenge or mishap should be reported to the responsible authorities and certified personnel will have to do the services. You may damage your machine or at worst you can be electrocuted.Unless otherwise required, external storage devices are not allowed to be brought into the laboratory. These are not allowed because of intellectual property security, viruses, document and privacy infringement among other reasons.Do not upload unnecessary soft wares they slow your machine. Over exposure to the computer can make you to have eyesight problems.Lastly please do not and I repeat please do not abuse the computer to watch illegal adult stuff.Shepherd Chimururi (Executive Director &#8211; Dzidzo Inhaka Audio Visual Learning). Mobile: +263 772 608 [email&#160;protected] www.dzidzoinhaka.co.zw.