Patson DzamaraSibusiso Ndlamini Correspondent Patson Dzamara s move to petition the World Bank to stop dealing with the Zimbabwean Government in its efforts to attract willing international financiers, shows that the young man is more of a destructor than a doctor as he claims. As it stands, Patson s journey to the United States of America was a sponsored one. It is known that Dzamara and his funders have an agenda to destabilise Zimbabwe. Dzamara is being used by the West to revolt against his own Government. It is public knowledge that the West is pursuing illegal regime change in Zimbabwe.It is a fact that Patson Dzamara is seeking political mileage through the unfortunate missing of his brother Itai. It s actually a shame that while Government is making possible measures to restore the economy, opposition forces are busy tearing down those efforts. Had it been that the Zimbabwean Government was to receive any funding from the World Bank meant for development, the move would benefit the entire nation. As it stands, the nation needs developmental funds to finance Zim-Asset and capacitate industries.Dzamara should just keep his mouth shut if he is no longer interested in staying in Zimbabwe. His petition to the World Bank shows that he doesn t care for his fellow Zimbabweans and country. Why would he call for the suffering of citizens of his country?Dzamara s petition to the World Bank can best be compared to the Movement for Democratic Change leader, Morgan Tsvangirai s call for the imposition of illegal sanctions on Zimbabwe. Tsvangirai thought that he was intelligent when he called for illegal sanctions to be imposed on Zimbabwe, not knowing that he was biting his back. The same illegal sanctions are haunting him and his party. At one time, he was reportedly failing to fuel the car he was given by Government during his stint as a Prime Minister in the Inclusive Government.In 2015, Tsvangirai realised that sanctions were not treating him good, hence he pleaded with the US to lift the sanctions. However, as one of the reforms, it is pleasing to note that Government has already started a national agriculture programme, Command Agriculture scheme, which will curb the current food shortages in the country.Despite efforts to cause havoc at the 71st Session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, by Dzamara, #ThisFlag pastor, Evan Mawarire and other countries detractors in the US, Zimbabwe has been recognised and given the top post of new President of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). Zimbabwe Ambassador to the UN, Mr Frederick Shava took over the leadership of ECOSOC from South Korean Ambassador to the UN, Oh Goon. Such an elevation is an endorsement and legitimisation of the Zimbabwean Government. Obviously the detractors are not amused by such recognition.People are aware that Dzamara and Mawarire are just singing for their supper. Where would someone who has been failing to pay his children s school fees locally, get the money to pay for his stay in America? This is clear-cut evidence that the two are being used as political tools for regime change by the Americans. One may wonder what exactly Dzamara will benefit from petitioning the World Bank to stop supporting Zimbabwe.If Dzamara and Mawarire are hallucinating and dreaming that one of the days they will wake up leading this country alongside the Americans, they should immediately end their dreams and smell the coffee. Zimbabwe was once a colony, and will never be a colony again. Remember, a lot of blood was shed by former freedom fighters, who fought tirelessly to liberate Zimbabweans from bondage of colonialism.Zimbabweans are not interested in the nefarious activities of Dzamara and Mawarire. This explains why their recent anti-Government demonstration in the US was a dismal flop.A collective effort from Government, public and private sector is what is needed at the moment in revitalising the economy. It is pleasing that Government is making reform focused on rejuvenating the economy. The current state of the economy is a result of a number of situations which include the illegal sanctions that were imposed on the nation by the West. Additionally, the country has been hit hard by the El-Nino induced drought.In Asia, China once experienced an ailing economy. However, its reform process was done gradually but effectively. Written reports have it that major disruptions to the economy were avoided and policies were modified to suit local and national conditions. The same can also be done locally, when reviving our economy.We are quite convinced that Government is currently processing the reforms. Hence, just like China, Zimbabwe has the potential to resuscitate its economy. Zimbabweans should support Government at every stage of economic development. We strongly believe that reforms are needed and they should begin from somewhere.As a matter of fact, Dzamara, Mawarire and allies should cease from being some kind of negative populists and demagogues. They would do well if they could swap citizenship with those Americans who are rallying behind President Mugabe. It appears they are better informed about the Zimbabwean history than the directionless dwarf pawns hired to make noise in New York.