Munyaradzi Musiiwa Midlands Correspondent Members of the Zanu-PF Women s League have been warned against denigrating any of the two Vice Presidents or undermining their authority as this was tantamount to undermining the authority of the President. Addressing members of the Zanu-PF Midlands Provincial Women s League deputy secretary for Women s Affairs Cde Eunice Sandi-Moyo said the two Vice Presidents Cdes Emmerson Mnangagwa and Phelekezela Mphoko were appointees of President Mugabe hence, members of the party should respect the President s decision.She said party members should not denigrate any member of the Presidium particularly the two Vice Presidents or undermine their authority as they were both Presidential appointees.Cde Sandi-Moyo said party members should not divide people by claiming that one of the Vice Presidents is better than the other or that the other one is not legitimate as both lieutenants serve at the mercy of President Mugabe. At the top, we have three elders in the Presidium. We have President Mugabe, ubaba Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa and ubaba (Phelekezela) Mphoko. Of these three, do not respect the other and leave out the other. Respect all of them because they are a symbol of leadership in the country, said Cde Sandi-Moyo.She further explained that the pair was appointed and selected by the President and that he selected them because he trusts them. And you, who are you? People try to divide us by telling us this one is better and the other one is bad. Let me tell you, all these people serve at the mercy of President Mugabe. You did not vote for Cde Mnangagwa or Cde Mphoko. They were appointed by President Mugabe. What s your problem? Cde Moyo said cadres should desist from abusing names of leaders and putting their names into disrepute. There are people who abuse the name of the First Lady in the manner that brings her name and party into disrepute. That person is not good. He or she does not deserve to be in the party. We are not together with that person. Most of the times we have leaders who abuse the name of the President. She cited an incident in which some people from Manicaland brought a long list of people whom they claimed had been approved by President Mugabe to be in the Central Committee. The elected members started questioning the legitimacy of the elections, if elected members are left out. This got to the attention of the President and he was not happy about it, she said. Cde Sandi-Moyo said party members should remain united and solidly behind President Mugabe.