Dr MushoweElita chikwati Senior Reporter Government has urged educationists and society to create an environment that enables university graduates to be active agents of innovation.Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Dr Christopher Mushohwe made the remarks at the 7th Hilbright Science College prize giving ceremony in Harare on Thursday night. Dr Mushohwe applauded the college for putting special emphasis on psychomotor skills development, which he said was in line with President Mugabe s educational policy dream for Zimbabwe. The college is registered with City and Guilds and has given students an opportunity for skills development even at secondary school level. Students have an opportunity to leave the institution not just with an O-or-A level qualification, but with either a certificate or diploma in electrical engineering. A new education curriculum places special emphasis on psychomotor skills development. I am informed that Hilbright College has over 70 of its former students who are studying medicine, engineering, Information Technology and other specialist areas in China alone in addition to many others studying in various universities across the globe, he said. Let us all play our part in creating an environment in which our children will be active agents of innovation and technological transfer when they come back home after graduating from foreign institutions. He commended the college for its efforts in empowering the girl child through science education. Regarding the girl child empowerment, the chief servant drew my attention to Hilbright enrolment policy of 55 precent girls and 45 percent boys and the college use of gender sensitive instrumental methods to demystify the leaning of science to girls. This is in line with our national gender policy. The school s gender sensitivity is a major boost for women empowerment through science education. This is in sync with the old adage that if you educate a woman you educate the nation. Your thrust in science education dovetails perfectly with the national thrust under one of the pillars of Zim-Asset, to provide a conducive environment for the establishment of a sustainable technologically driven society, he said. As the executive director of the Presidential scholarship programme, we have so far assisted a significant number of students from the college to access university education in south Africa. Hilbright Science College chief servant Mr Pardon Mugari said the college used the Word of God to instil discipline in children.&nbsp;