Veld fires have become a persistent environmental challenging Zimbabwe destroying natural resources, property and life. Veld fires are characteristic during the dry season and most prevalent in the period July to October because of the dry veld and the prevailing hot-windy weather conditions. Veld fire statistics at a glanceThe cumulative area burnt since the onset of the fire season on July 31 2016 to September 23 is 612 653,5ha, a 27,9 percent decrease compared to the 849 758ha burnt by the same period in the previous year, 2015. The impact of these blazes has been loss of natural resources, valuable property and life. It is saddening to note that five people have been killed by veld fires in the current 2016 fire season. Reports indicate that most fires are a result of the human activities such as; land clearing, cigarette smoking, hunting, bee smoking and fires made along roadsides by people while awaiting for transport or during breakdowns.How do communities participate in fighting veld fires?Managing veld fires is a complex issue that requires a holistic and multi- stakeholder approach. Communities are the landlords, occupiers, users of land, and thus they are an important stakeholder in preventing veld fires. All farmers must have boundary fire guards which are at least 9metres wide and internal one to which are at least 4,5m wide. The fire-guards must divide the farm into segments so that if there is an accidental fire it will not destroy the whole farm. These fire-guards must be maintained ensuring that they are free of any flammable material.Traditional and Local LeadersTraditional and local leaders being the custodians of our natural resources are encouraged to:Spearhead the construction of standard fire guards in their communities.Establish fire-fighting teams within the local communities who will lead the rest of the community in extinguishing veld fires.Use traditional courts to sanction veld fire offenders.Keep a record of all the veld fire occurrences in their areasHold fire awareness meetings and campaigns throughout the fire season.Establish a veld fire alert system in every village such as drum beat, bell/gong or whistle.FarmersAccording to the Forest Act (Chapter 19:05) as read with Statutory Instrument 7 of 2007 Environmental Management (Environmental impact Assessment and Ecosystems Protection) Regulations; land owners or occupiers are to put take fire preventive measure before the onset of the fire season. Farms are supposed to:Make standard fire guards which are 9m wide on either side of the farm boundaries and also internal fire guards which are 4,5m around valuable resources/propertyInspect fire-guards regularly to make sure that they are free of any combustible material.Ensure that fire- fighting equipment such as;water filled knapsack sprayers and bowser, fire beaters and sacks are at an accessible point during the fire season.Report all fire incidences to the nearest ZRP or EMA offices within 7 days.Have fire alert systems such as drums, whistles and bells;Listen to weather personnel on the fire danger index so as to improve your state of preparedness.School ChildrenThis is a very important stakeholder group and we are concerned with their safety which can be compromised by veld fires. School children should:Not try to cross over veld fires as this may result in fire related fatalities.Immediately report fire incidences to adults such as parents or teachers before the fires spread and should not in any way attempt to extinguish the fires in the absence of adults.Never climb trees in trying to flee from a veld fire as both the tree and the children could be burnt to death.Bee Smokers, Cigarette Smokers, Motorists and TravellersSmokers can play their roles in veld fire management by ensuring that they extinguish their cigarette stubs before throwing them away to avoid veld fires.Motorists should ensure that car electrical systems are serviced and loose mechanical parts such as the exhaust must be tightened to avoid veld fires emanating from sparks so created after getting in contact with the grass on the road servitude as you drive.Do not drive through fire flames or areas where your vision is obscured by smoke from veld fires.Travellers boarding early morning buses should completely extinguish road side fires used to keep warm whilst waiting for transport. This can be done using water or moist soil.&nbsp;Always remember to report sewer pipe bursts and illegal solid waste dumps in your areas. Make a difference. Report environmental crimes. We are now in the fire season &#8211; don t start fires outside your residential or commercial premises.