Elita Chikwati : Agriculture ReporterFarmers have started preparations for the 2016/17 summer cropping season with some appealing for tillage services after they lost their livestock to drought last year. In different parts of the country, farmers have started land preparations and mobilising inputs while others are waiting for the rains. Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers Union president Mr Wonder Chabikwa confirmed that land preparations had started but said some farmers were waiting for the rains to start tilling the land. Farmers with resources have already started land preparations. Most of the farmers who have started land preparations are contracted farmers. Some farmers are still mobilising funds for inputs and land preparations while others always start land preparations after the first rains, he said.Mr Chabikwa said some farmers in the Midlands, Chipinge, Matabeleland and Masvingo lost their livestock to drought and were having challenges with draught power. Some farmers do not have draught power and we appeal to the District Development Fund to assist farmers with tillage services. Payments will be made through the stop order system. We also urge farmers to practice conservation farming other than wait for tillage equipment, he said.Mr Chabikwa said most tobacco farmers had started transplanting their irrigated crop. Transplanting of the irrigated crop started on September 1. There are not many challenges in the tobacco sector as three quarters of the farmers are contracted. Non-contracted growers bought inputs during the selling season but some failed because of the cash shortages and still need assistance in terms of fertilisers. We have made arrangements for the non-contracted farmers to form groups and get fertiliser at a small deposit and pay the rest of the money when they sell their crop, he said.Zimbabwe Farmers Union director Mr Paul Zakariya said farmers were getting ready for the season.He said most of the agricultural lands had been prepared although some farmers were facing challenges on mobilizing inputs. The capacity to procure inputs is quite limited. As such a majority of farmers are waiting on announced inputs schemes. Farmers in the southern regions are experiencing serious draught power challenges. The recent drought wrecked havoc and saw significant numbers of cattle dying. The loss if being felt by farmers in the region as they prepare for the 2016/17 farming season, he said.Last season Zimbabwe was affected by a severe drought which has been described by experts as the worst in 18 years.Normal to above normal rains are expected during the 2016/17 season. Most farmers are hopeful of a good farming season.&nbsp;