MacDonald Gurira at a functionTafadzwa Zimoyo: Lifestyle Writer The time will come for me to settle down. It s not like I have been ignoring the issue, but I have come to a certain level in my life whereby I wait for God to tell me to have a life partner. I could have settled down sometime back but because of my busy schedule, the one I once had had to leave me. I am still single but not searching. I am in love with my work. You will be the first to know when I am getting married. A bachelor s life is a fine breakfast, a flat lunch, and a miserable dinner , says one philosopher.Another statement says marriage or love relationships are like a haunted house &#8211; some are yearning to get in it while others are craving to get out.Yet another saying posits that Marriage is a like a staircase &#8211; some are wishing to go up while some are wishing to go down .The statements have part of their lines ringing true for one of Harare s bachelors, MacDonald Gurira (32), who despite all the fame that he has amassed as a successful and popular television and radio presenter and producer, is still not taken and does not seem keen to do so anytime soon.And in similar fashion to one of his sporting icons, Jamaican runner Usain Bolt, Mac Dee (not to be confused with the renowned Zimbabwean music producer), is not in a rush. The time will come for me to settle down. It s not like I have been ignoring the issue, but I have come to a certain level in my life whereby I wait for God to tell me to have a life partner. I could have settled down sometime back but because of my busy schedule, the one I once had had to leave me. I am still single but not searching. I am in love with my work. You will be the first to know when I am getting married, said Gurira.But what is his ideal kind of future partner or wife? Well, when it comes to looks, I have a crush on Julia Roberts, who is one of the top female and beautiful actresses in the United States, while locally there is someone dear to my heart whose name oozes with one of the key colours of romance, red. She is curvy and I love her smile.I can t share the name but she is my number one crush. I love women who are challenging, someone who is loyal and dresses well, he said.And like the colour red, Gurira has made his presence felt by painting both the TV and radio sectors with a brush big enough to make some power houses erase their own history of success out of envy.Gurira is one of the driving and powerful forces behind Good Morning Zimbabwe , while SFM s Tuesday programmes are also his to steer? Good Morning Zimbabwe is important to me in that I get to interact with the nation. They know me in person while they give their feedback. This interaction is as good as the SFM programme which to me is an ultimate guide on how to ignite your business. There is nothing worthwhile in life than knowing that you are making positive impact to the nation and there is one particular programme, Inside Zimbabwe , that has been particularly meaningful and effective to me, he said.TV and radio have helped him to shift into other dimensions where windows of opportunity have been opened. I have been involved in motivational seminars to speak in front of various people and this has been enriching to my profession, said the presenter and producer who was educated at Seke 3 High School in Chitungwiza and Speciss College in Harare.Coming from a family of six &#8211; four boys and two girls &#8211; Gurira said he is grounded in his faith in God. If anyone is to ask me what makes me tick and where my feet are grounded, then I won t hesitate to say that God makes all things for me possible. This is the reason why one of my biggest weaknesses is to see an opportunity and grab it. Cricket and hanging out also help in sharpening my mental intelligence, said the Northside Community Church (Pomona) member.Gurira said he loves fashion and can t do without a fedora hat.So to you single ladies out there, here is your potential prince in shining armour!