Koica Alumni Association of Zimbabwe (KAAZ) president Jonathan Chandavengerwa (left), South Korea ambassador Kwon Yong-kyu (center) and Jairos Jiri branch centre board member and treasurer John Dzinamurungu (right) at the official handover of a refurbished dormitory donated by KAAZ and Korean embassy to Jairosi Jiri special school in Harare on Friday last week. (Picture by Memory Mangombe).Reason Razao : Herald ReporterThe Korea Alumni Association of Zimbabwe (KAAZ) and Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) last week officially handed over a refurbished dormitory to Jairos Jiri Children s Centre in Harare. KAAZ consists of Zimbabweans, who at one point, received educational assistance from the Korean government. Speaking at the handover ceremony, KAAZ president Mr Jonathan Chandavengerwa said the renovation of the dormitory was a boost to existing bilateral relations between Zimbabwe and Korea. Starting last year, our association received some funds from KOICA through the Korean embassy for various activities. I am excited to note that Jairos Jiri was the first recipient of our assistance as we donated groceries last year. We promised more and we delivered, he said.He said they were going to keep working with the children s home by assisting whenever they can.KAAZ also assisted in raising funds to purchase paint, five solar geysers, lights, water pipes, 20 mattresses, bed covers, bed sheets, curtains, and 500 chicks and stock feed.The Republic of Korea s Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Kwon Yong-kyu said it is important to give future generations a strong hope and a vision in preparing them for success. I believe each and every one of the KAAZ members, and students in Jairos Jiri School will play the leading role in building this country and bringing their people a new hope and prosperity, he said. Jairos Jiri national executive director Mr Wilson Ruvere said the donations would go a long way in promoting sustainability and food security. Indeed, the association derives immense inspiration from the outstanding and rare sense of social responsibility, distinctive empathy for the people with disabilities, and unrelenting dedication towards their well-being by noble citizens of our country, well-wishers and friends abroad, he said.