Ricky Zililo in BULAWAYOHighlanders &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;(1) 2 Mutare City Rovers &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;(0) 1 RALPH Matema rose from the bench to score Highlanders winner for the second consecutive week as Bosso saw off visiting Mutare City Rovers to advance to the quarter-finals of the Chibuku Super Cup at Barbourfields yesterday.With the teams tied at 1-1, Matema, who replaced the ineffective Allen Gahadzikwa in the 61st minute, scored the winner in the 79th minute when he beat Mutare City Rovers goalkeeper Philip Nhete at the near post.Matema, who scored Highlanders winner in the 2-1 league victory over Dynamos last week, did justice to Bosso s build up to the second goal by connecting a Prince Dube cross from the right.Highlanders had taken the lead four minutes into stoppage time of the first half through a classic own goal by Munyaradzi Sako, who beat Nhete in a desperate attempt to block a hard and low cross delivered by Dube.However, a blunder by Highlanders left-back Honest Moyo, who failed to control a simple pass in the 47th minute, gifted Mutare City Rovers the equaliser.Collen Muzavazi reacted quickly to collect the loose ball and fed Agrippa Murimba, who easily beat drawn out Highlanders goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda.Bosso could have won the game by a wider margin had they not fluffed five clear-cut chances, three in the first half and two in the second.Bosso gaffer Erol Akbay said: It s a good win for us, but we re not thinking about the final yet. We need to take each game as it comes. Mutare City coach Taku Shariwa said losing to Highlanders was a blessing in disguise as he would now focus on their survival fight.Bosso players were seemingly affected by Mutare City Rovers mind games involving suspected juju. The home team s players kept going to remove things from goalkeeper Nhete s goal area.Nhete s antics of planting something in his goal area agitated Bosso fans in the Soweto stand, who reacted by throwing bottles with urine whenever their players missed clear cut chances.Bosso midfielder Simon Munawa produced the miss of the day in the 25th minute when he ran into the box to meet a good delivery by Moyo from the left, only for him to unbelievably head over bar with Nhete stranded.Six minutes later, Dube sneaked behind Mutare City defenders, but also headed wide wide, convincing Bosso fans that some juju had been planted in the goal area.Highlanders keeper Sibanda produced a great save, punching away Mutare City captain Chasten Ngondonga s effort in the 72nd minute.A good build-up involving Erick Mudzingwa, Rahman Kutsanzira, Tendai Ngulube and Dube led to Matema s 79th minute goal, which won the game for Bosso.Mutare City coach Taku Shariwa said losing to Highlanders was a blessing in disguise as he would now focus on their survival fight. It s unfortunate that we lost, but I think this might be a blessing in disguise so that we concentrate on our relegation fight. We conceded soft goals, said Shariwa. Bosso gaffer Erol Akbay said: It s a good win for us, but we re not thinking about the final yet. We need to take each game as it comes. Teams Highlanders: A. Sibanda, T. Ngulube, H. Moyo, P. Muduhwa, T. Ndlovu, E. Mudzingwa, A. Gahadzikwa (R. Matema, 61st minute), S. Munawa, R. Kutsanzira (K. Nadolo, 90th minute), N. Ndlovu (G. Nyoni, 81st minute), P. Dube Mutare City Rovers: P. Nhete, B. Mukwena, A. Murimba, R. Madamombe (El. Chimhaka, 46th minute), C. Ngondonga, A. Nyakabawo, W. Sithole (T. Chabwana, 54th minute), M. Tapatapa (E. Sinaputa, 67th minute), C. Muzavazi, M. Sako, B. Mujamanda. @ZililoR&nbsp;