Fidelis Munyoro : Chief Court ReporterZimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission investigations manager Ms Sukai Tongogara has been reassigned to a new post of general manager external relations and international conventions in the commission. Mr Savious Kufandada is tipped to take over as general manager investigations and prosecutions. Ms Tongogara was cleared of charges of misconduct following a disciplinary hearing last month.She was facing two counts of misconduct. She was accused of being part of the secretariat that formed a private company called Private Mortgage Company (PMC) without the knowledge or resolution of the commission.It was further alleged that Ms Tongogara and three others diverted $1,7 million from Treasury to buy individual shares in a private company. This was said to be tantamount to theft of public funds and making improper use of public funds.Ms Tongogara denied both allegations against her.Through her lawyer, Mr Joel Mambara, Ms Tongogara was cleared of both counts after a fully contested disciplinary hearing.Ms Loice Mukunyadzi chaired the disciplinary committee which ruled in favour of Ms Tongogara. After assessing all evidence placed before this committee there is nothing to show that respondent participated in the whole scheme, said Ms Mukunyadza. It cannot be ruled out that her name was fraudulently put on CR/14. She said at the time the corrupt activities were happening at ZACC, she was not even at work. Ms Mukunyadza also noted that the committee went through the minutes of meetings which were held by PMC directors, and discovered that Ms Tongogara never participated in the meetings. It will be improper of this committee to find the respondent guilty of the misconduct charges since there is nothing to suggest that she participated in the whole scheme, she said.Ms Tongogara was charged together with three others Mr Christopher Chisango (general manager finance, administration and human resources), Mr Edwin Mubataripi (general manager, prevention and advocacy) and Mr Gibson Mangwiro who was the chief accountant/finance manager.The three managers were convicted of engaging in corrupt activities that involved the former Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) chief executive Ngonidzashe Gumbo.Gumbo, a former Senior Assistant Commissioner in the Zimbabwe Republic Police, was jailed for two years last year for defrauding the commission of $435 000.He bought offices to be used by the commission in Mt Pleasant, Harare, using Government funds, but registered the property in the name of a company he jointly owned with the three.The State proved that in 2010, ZACC approached the Home Affairs Ministry seeking alternative accommodation when their landlords were about to evict them.The ministry instructed Gumbo to look for alternative property and he identified 872 Betterment Close in Mt Pleasant that belonged to Diane Spalletah. Gumbo then requested $1 680 000 from the ministry to buy the property and Government deposited $1,7 million into a ZACC account.He instructed his subordinates Mubataripi, Chisango and Mangwiro to form a shelf company called Property Mortgage where they became directors with equal shares.