A BROTHERS SHOW . . . Sport and Recreation Minister Makhosini Hlongwane (left) and his Cuban counterpart Antonio Becali Garrido sign a Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries in Havana, Cuba, this weekSports Reporter SPORT and Recreation Minister Makhosini Hlongwane believes Zimbabwe stands to benefit a lot from closer co-operation with Cuba in areas of sport, medicine and general development after the two countries signed a Memorandum of Understanding this week. Hlongwane, who returns from Cuba today, held meetings with counterpart Antonio Becali Garrido who is Cuba s president of the National Institute of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation during his visit.The signing ceremony was attended by INDER s board of directors, Cuban sporting legends most of whom are multiple gold medallists at the Olympics and the ambassador of Zimbabwe to Cuba, Ignatius Mudzimba.The signing ceremony was held on Tuesday. The signing of this agreement signals Zimbabwe s yearning for success in the sport and recreation sector. Zimbabwe is pushing ahead to organise the sports and recreation sector with a view to achieving sustainable job creation and success on the podium in regional, continental and global competitions. The signing further cements the cordial relations between the people of Zimbabwe and Cuba that have deep historical roots starting from the days of the liberation struggle. While Zimbabwe and Cuba have cooperated in the field of health and education, this is the first time that these two sisterly countries are co-operating in the field of sport and recreation. It s a historic milestone, said Hlongwane.Cuba s Garrido described the signing of this agreement as historic.Ministry official Yudinance Chihuri, who accompanied Hlongwane on the two-day visit, yesterday said the pact will include areas of co-operation such as exchange of information related to sport and recreation medicine, sport and recreation research and development, sport technology, doping control, high performance and general sports techniques. In addition, the agreement calls for exchange of experts in the field of sport which will go a long way in furthering the development of sport and recreation in Zimbabwe. During the two-day visit to Cuba, Hlongwane visited Cuba s Sports Medicine Institute, the National Volleyball School and the Centre for Scientific Research of Cuban Sports, said Chihuri.The Ministry of Sport and Recreation recently launched the national sports policy and the co-operation with Cuba will help drive aspects of the policy. Chihuri said, following the signing of this Memorandum of Understanding, Zimbabwe is expected to develop its sport medicine industry, engage in research and development in sport and recreation learning from Cuba s experience. Under the auspices of this agreement, a Cuban company has agreed to invest in the production of a Cuban developed sports energy drink in Zimbabwe for the African market. The signing of this Memorandum of Understanding further cements government s commitment to organising the sport and recreation sector for employment creation and industrial development, said Chihuri, who is the Legal Officer at the Ministry of Sport and Recreation.