Tafadzwa Zimoyo : Arts ReporterAfter three years of silence, popular local reality entrepreneurial show dubbed My Own Boss has bounced back with Season Six. The show is calling for auditions for young people between the ages 18 35 and the call is open until September 30. Last season s anchor Samuelle Dimairho will continue the new chapter, which is scheduled to be on screens next month. In an interview, the new principal for the show Kumbulani Masayila, said Season Six of the show will focus on telling the story of young people trying to launch or grow their businesses in a world characterised by a tough economic environment, rapid global changes and disruptions, and the competition and opportunities that come with a globalised economy. The show is now back. Remember it is a franchise hence I have taken up from where the previous holder left. I am happy to say that the next show will take viewers and followers of the show through the world of our aspiring entrepreneurs and change makers as they work out day and night to curve a successful path for themselves. It will capture the emotions, the ups and downs, the hopes and doubts, the breakthroughs and breakdowns of the young, bright and talented aspiring entrepreneurs as they go through the process of acquiring the skills and knowledge needed to succeed in today s competitive environment of business. The last season of the show aired on ZBC TV in 2013. Season Six promises to be as exciting and enlightening as ever. My Own Boss is an experiential learning reality television show whose main objective is to develop the entrepreneurial skills of young people in Zimbabwe. We are also calling for those willing to partner with the show to come aboard and make it a great success, he said.He said during each season young people are put in a house and given different business tasks under the guidance of a seasoned entrepreneur over a period of 13 consecutive weeks. When carrying out the various business tasks, the contestants will be divided into two teams with each team choosing a project manager. The anchor will meet the contestants once a week in the boardroom. During the boardroom sessions, the head anchor will hand out a business task to the contestants. The contestants will have one week to execute the task and report back in the next boardroom session. Each task will have a certain criteria for assessing the teams and individuals performances. During the task report back and assessment sessions at least one contestant from the losing team will be evicted from the house. The process will be repeated until a winner is announced, he said.He said there is a grant worth of $10 000 in cash, mentorship, office space, and support to be given to the winner for them to successfully launch their business.