Grace Chingoma : Senior Sports ReporterCAPS United forward Leonard Tsipa is back in the fold as the Green Machine resume their quest for the Castle Lager Premiership title with a tricky away match against ZPC Kariba at Nyamhunga this afternoon. The club s leading goalscorer returns after missing the Chibuku Super Cup match against Tsholotsho. CAPS United also received a major boost following the recovery of midfielders Abbas Amidu and Archford Gutu and striker Dominic Chungwa.Only the duo of Edmore Zikeeper Sibanda and Tafadzwa Rusike are still sidelined with injuries.Leaders FC Platinum have a tricky away assignment against Border Strikers in Beitbridge.CAPS coach Lloyd Chitembwe said they would venture into Kariba with a spring in their step. We have come a long way in this race and it is only good for our confidence that we are left with seven games and we are a point behind the leading team and there can be no better moments than this in football, said Chitembwe. Everything is okay at the club and the mindset of the players is fine. They (players) all want to play and do well. The spirit is very good and from what I am getting from them they really want to play. We are looking forward to the game which is one thing we have control over unlike the past match which is now behind us. ZPC Kariba are a good team with seasoned players and a very good coach. I think this is going to be one of the very good matches. We want to win at all costs and they also want to win. The hosts coach Sunday Mhofu Chidzambwa said they were honoured to host a team like CAPS who were fighting for the league title. We are playing with a team fighting for championship and it won t be an easy game for both of us, said Chidzambwa. It is the second half of the game which we played at Rufaro which was exciting and we drew 2-2. CAPS came back from two goals down to force that draw with Tsipa scoring a late equaliser. Chidzambwa said should they win this afternoon they would have done themselves a favour. People win the league on their own because they would be playing their own football. So we are also hoping that we will achieve our own result, said Chidzambwa.ZPC Kariba will miss striker Tinei Chitora who was injured in the last league match.FixturesToday: Ngezi v Chapungu (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v CAPS United (Nyamhunga), Border Strikers v FC Platinum (Dulivadzimu), Bulawayo City v Triangle (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Tsholotsho (Rufaro).Tomorrow: Chicken Inn v Mutare City Rovers (White City), Harare City v Highlanders (Rufaro), How Mine v Hwange (Luveve).