WataffiTawanda Matanhire: Lifestyle CorrespondentAward-winning Afro-fusion outfit Afrika Revenge made headlines in 2005 with hits Wanga and Anochengeta topping charts on local radio stations amongst others, creating a huge fan base in the country. Willis Wataffi Afrika Wachambwa and Mehluli Taz Moyo however went on silence owing to other commitments within their camp until they separated into solo careers with Wataffi pursuing his own Qaya music.Their attempt to reunite more than a year ago failed to yield positive results as people seem to have accepted that Afrika Revenge has sunk for good.Now Wataffi has opened a new chapter in his music career.He has turned to gospel music. He has released two singles that are on his upcoming album Songs of David to be launched in two weeks.The multi-talented musician said that he had been silent owing to other commitments in the arts industry. I have been incapacitated due to my now involvement in film and television, Wataffi said. I have anchored DSTV game show Walala Wasala and appeared in movies, The Gentleman and Lobola, he added. I also design and make clothes and shoes under Qaya wear, Kine and Jes`us by Wataffi footwear which will be launched on the same day as the album Songs of David , Wataffi said.He said gospel music genre came to him as an answer to a call from God who had used several people to tell him that he had to sing for Him. I ve always been involved with church but never put it out to people, it s a side of me many never really knew. I have led praise and worship sessions in many churches so church isn t new to me. It s just that I never shared my church involvement with the public, he added. There had been a prophecy from men and women of God saying I should sing for the Lord so this album is a sign of obedience, he said.Wataffi released his first solo project in 2007 called Zhizha , which had 11 tracks, in 2009 he released award winning Qaya Roots , a 13-track album.In 2012 he released Harare which was a two-track EP, in 2015 he collaborated with some of the finest African artists including Salif Keita, Uhuru, Baloja amongst others on a project which features on Trace, Mtv base and Channel O.On his latest offering he features some of the finest artists in the country including Aby Christ, Sabastian Magacha, Pastor G, Tytan of Mukoko fame and Tatenda Mahachi amongst others.The Christ TV and Christ Embassy award winner said he chose to do a complete album when many artists are concentrating on singles because he is from a generation of artists who believes in giving out full packages to his fans rather than teasers.He said Afrika Revenge is still alive since it reunion and they are working on something. We brought Africa Revenge back by public demand. We will record an album soon and the music is ready for studio, Wataffi said.Wataffi highlighted that his target for his music has actually broadened because it is meant to serve the entire world. Am targeting the entire world because we, the church have souls to win for God`s Kingdom. Songs of David seeks to worship God in spirit and in truth. 