Ellina Mhlanga : Sports ReporterMIGHTY Warriors coach Shadreck Mlauzi is concerned with the injuries haunting his team with a number of players struggling as they begin their preparations for the Africa Women Cup of Nations. Zimbabwe take on Egypt on Tuesday in a friendly match at Rufaro. The senior women side will be in Cameroon for the Africa Cup of Nations slated for November 19 to December 3. The draw for the competition is on tomorrow in Yaound , where the eight participating countries will be drawn into two groups of four.The Mighty Warriors are expected in camp tomorrow ahead of Tuesday s friendly match against Egypt.However, Mlauzi is worried about injuries that have continued to stalk his side and had to exclude captain Felistas Muzongondi, defender Lynett Mutokuto, strikers Rudo Neshamba, Erina Jeke and Samkelisiwe Zulu from the squad named on Thursday for the friendly against Egypt. It s unfortunate the welfare of these players is not considered. They have done a lot for this nation, the least we can do is get them treated. But clubs cannot afford to cover the expenses for these players. So it s a worry to us. We are concerned with their health, as much as they want to constantly sacrifice for the nation. They are no longer playing to their best levels. It s just a matter of a good Samaritan coming in for these girls, said Mlauzi.Muzongondi has a persistent thigh problem while the other four have knee injuries.Mlauzi said although they may not have enough time to prepare for the game, they are up for the task as they begin their preparations. We sort of have to make do with what the situation demands us to do. We just hope things will work out, but in football things must be done in a right manner because it will come back to haunt us at certain stages. As coaches we never fail to come up with stop gap measures to cover up for the administrative challenges that we are facing. We will duly try to make use of it, said Mlauzi.Mlauzi, who led the Mighty Warriors to their Olympic debut appearance in Brazil last month said they are looking at tactical variation building up to the continental football tournament in Cameroon. We remain hopeful that once again our girls will come through despite the challenges we are facing. We want to analyse our options in terms of tactical variation that we can consider going into the tournament because most of the teams now know the characteristics of our players. Definitely we can build on the experience from that (Olympic Games). Our vision is very clear to the team, we want to conquer Africa and that we have made clear to the team. We are going into the tournament looking forward to doing extremely well, said Mlauzi.However, it is not yet clear if the team will remain in camp after the match on Tuesday as Zifa spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela said they will unveil the details on Monday. We will give you that particular information on Monday, meaning it will be available on Monday, said Gwesela.The national football association have released the gate charges for the game with the VIP arena pegged at $5, upper grand stand $3 and the rest of the ground is pegged at $1.Mighty Warriors SquadGoalkeepers: Lindiwe Magwede (Cyclone Stars), Chido Dzingirai (Flame Lily), Manyara Mandara (Mwenezana), Deliwe Makaha (Faith Drive)Defenders: Danai Bhobho (Mwenezana), Nobuhle Majika (Inline Academy), Nobukhosi Ncube (New Orleans), Sarudzai Chikoore (Conduit), Lince Mpaya, Ruvimbo Mutyavaviri (Mufakose), Sheila Makoto (Blue Swallows), Patience Mujuru (Black Rhinos)Midfielders: Emmaculate Msipa, Violet Bepete, Viola Ndlovu, Talent Mandaza (all Black Rhinos), Mavis Chirandu (Weerams), Greater Bhande (Cyclone Stars), Marjory Nyaumwe (Flame Lily), Palesa Chipendo, Moddy Muwoni.Strikers: Rutendo Makore, Kudakwashe Basopo (all Black Rhinos), Berita Kabwe (Flame Lily), Sibonginkosi Nleya (Weerams), Maudi Mafuruse (Faith Drive), Tonderai Masango (lnline Academy).