Mr ZakariyaElita Chikwati Agriculture Reporter Farmers have appealed to Government to speed up processing applications for command agriculture so that they prepare adequately ahead of the early onset of the rainfall season. There is a high likelihood of an early start of the season for the whole country, with significant rains expected as early as late September 2016 in the southern areas of the country.Experts have urged authorities to distribute inputs, including small grains in all regions by the end of September in Matabeleland South, Masvingo, Midlands and southern districts of Manicaland and by the end of October, to the rest of the country.Zimbabwe Farmers Union director Mr Paul Zakariya yesterday said farmers were happy with the command agriculture concept and were willing to participate in the programme. Farmers are upbeat about this programme. By introduction, it is availing a rare opportunity to finance agriculture in Zimbabwe. Issues of concern, however, are to do with timeliness. With where we are now in the season, it would appear as though the programme is lagging behind.Land preparation is already underway, but confidence will be boosted by clarity being given on the modalities of accessing loans or inputs for the programme, he said.Mr Zakariya said inputs suppliers were not clear on whether they would be contracted any time soon. The minimum of five tonnes per hectare will be achievable only with things being done on time. Our advice is that farmers be ready to catch the first rains and not to be forced to wait much longer into the season as this will have a bearing on the yields, he said.Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers Union president, Mr Wonder Chabikwa, said the selection of beneficiaries should be done early as timing was important in farming. We are grateful that Government came up with command agriculture. We are confident that the programme will empower farmers as there is no other source of funding. If given inputs on time, we can achieve the five tonnes per hectare. We are worried that the programme is a bit delayed. Farmers should know their position concerning the programme so they make informed choices on time. Irrigation rehabilitation should have been done by now. Command agriculture will ensure farmers make full use of the land, but the inputs should be distributed early, he said.He said command agriculture was enhancing the Buy Zimbabwe promotion since adequate food would be produced locally.Command agriculture is targeting 400 000 hectares of land, expected to produce at least two million tonnes of maize, enough to meet national grain requirements for the country.Of this targeted hectarage, 264 000 hectares are on dry land, while 136 000 are irrigable.This import substitution maize production programme targets both A1 and A2 farmer-participants as well as Government institutional farms, particularly those near water bodies.Already, more than 310 000 hectares of land have been identified, of which over 105 000 are irrigable land, while over 204 000 are on dry land.Farmers are signing performance contracts, initially for three consecutive growing seasons, commencing with the 2016/17 summer season, and will receive support covering maize seed, fertilisers and tillage.