Eddie Chikamhi : Sports ReporterCAPS United assistant coach Fungai Tostao Kwashi says Makepekepe need to work hard and pray hard in the remainder of the season as they brace for a potential banana skin against How Mine at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. The Green Machine, who are second behind FC Platinum in the title race, know they need to win matches for themselves in order to compete for this year s crown. We are not worried much about how other teams are playing, said Kwashi. In fact, we concentrate on our own performances and try as much as we can to keep challenging ourselves to do better and better. So we still look forward to a tough outing on Sunday because football is an unpredictable game. Just last week Tsholotsho beat us in a cup game and Border Strikers who are bottom of the table collected a point from log leaders FC Platinum during the week. So we have learnt to respect all our opponents. After all, How Mine are a very good team with some experienced players, said Kwashi.CAPS United are coming from a goalless draw at ZPC Kariba.The Green Machine are still being stalked by injuries as their captain Moses Muchenje, Archford Gutu, Kudzai Nyamupfukudza, Tafadzwa Rusike and big goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda have failed to recover.Midfielder Cabby Kamhapa, who replaced Nyamupfukudza, is probably the only change to the squad that travelled to Kariba. The guys played well to Kariba and we are hoping to continue from where we left and even score goals. The good thing about CAPS United is that we work as a team. We don t have individual players but a team. We also have got nothing to fear because we have a coach whom we so much believe in. If you have a person like Lloyd (Chitembwe) in your side you know you have a natural born leader. He has won the title before with CAPS United as a player. We have been learning a lot from him and I m sure the team is in very good hands. Statistics don t lie, CAPS United are in a healthier position at this stage than they have been in recent years. But as I said, we are still work in progress. We have to keep working hard and praying hard. I m sure by God s grace, step by step we will get there, said Kwashi.Makepekepe have since recovered from problems that affected their Chibuku Super Cup first round match against Tsholotsho which they lost 4-5 via shootout from the spot.The players had wanted to boycott the match resulting in a 30-minute delay to kickoff. Like any other team we have faced our own fair share of challenges in this tough economic environment but I would like to applaud our management especially the president Farai Jere and board chairman Lewis Uriri for their sacrifices. It s not easy to put in your money into football especially with the prevailing conditions. Mind you we are competing against corporates like ZPC, Mimosa, Ngezi Platinum, Innscor, Tongaat Hullet, Harare City, Metallon Gold etc and yet we remain competitive. How Mine are in high spirits following the midweek 2-0 win over Hwange. On their last visit to Harare last week they knocked Dynamos out of the Chibuku Super Cup with a 4-5 penalty shootout victory.They have experienced players like Milton Ncube, Qadr Amini, Kuda Musharu, Pasca Manhanga, Timothy January, towering Zambian midfielder Makundika Sakala and former CAPS United skipper Tapiwa Kumbhuyani.Results at Barbourfields tomorrow when Highlanders host Ngezi Platinum will also be critical in the championship race.Highlanders coach Erol Akbay declared on Thursday that the Bulawayo giants are now going for the kill following the away win over Harare City at Rufaro.But goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda, who saved a penalty and kept the Sunshine Boys at bay, said they will not put themselves under pressure. I think it s too early to talk about the championship but we are focused, taking every game as it comes. So we don t have to rush, we just have to focus and see how it goes, said Sibanda.FixturesTodayChapungu v Bulawayo City (Ascot), FC Platinum v Dynamos (Mandava).TomorrowHighlanders v Ngezi Platinum (Barbourfields), Hwange v Border Strikers (Colliery), CAPS United v How Mine (NSS), Mutare City v ZPC Kariba (Sakubva), Triangle v Chicken Inn (Gibbo)MondayTsholotsho v Harare City (Luveve).