DONE AND DUSTED . . . PSL competitions manager Elisha Mandireva (right) conducts the Chibuku Super Cup quarter-final draw in the company of Chibuku Brand Manager Karen Dhliwayo at The Suburban Village Lodge in Gweru yesterday. (Picture by Paul Mundandi)Eddie Chikamhi Sports Reporter DEFENDING champions Harare City have vowed to throw everything at their opponents in their quest to retain the Chibuku Cup after they were paired against ZPC Kariba in the quarter-finals of the tournament. According to the draw conducted in Gweru yesterday, the Sunshine Boys will travel to Nyamhunga this Saturday. How Mine were the first out of the pot and will face Highlanders at Barbourfields on Sunday.FC Platinum have a tricky date at Triangle on the same day while newboys Ngezi Platinum Stars host Tsholotsho on Saturday. Moses Chunga s Harare City, who were the biggest winners in the first round following a 4-0 thrashing ,of Border Strikers, are looking to continue with their fine run.They were represented at the draw by the chairman of the club s board of trustees Chris Mbanga. Remember we are the defending champions and we aim to go all out in defence of this cup, he said. It has never been difficult for us to play ZPC Kariba whether in Harare or in Kariba. We are hoping to maintain that and win the Chibuku Super Cup again. In football anything can happen. We are hoping for the best. FC Platinum spokesperson Chido Chizondo said they were looking forward to the trip to Gibbo. Obviously this week we shift our attention to the cup tournament and I am sure playing at Gibbo is like playing at home away from home, he said. At FC Platinum we take it one game at a time. Our destiny is in the hands of God. In cup games everyone has good chances of winning and from our side we are going to give it 100 percent. Triangle secretary general Abraham Chinemaringa said FC Platinum should expect blood and thunder. We still have unfinished business with FC Platinum. They beat us twice this year and now it s time to revenge, said Chinemaringa.Bosso secretary-general Emmert Ndlovu was happy with the draw. I m smiling and the reason I m smiling is because it is a derby and it obviously means exciting football. How Mine are coached by our former sons Kevin Kaindu and Bekhitemba Ndlovu who definitely want to prove a point. But we will also prove something to them. We need to be at our best because any team at this stage of the league will be dangerous, said Ndlovu.Debutants Ngezi Platinum Stars chairman Jeremiah Gasitene said they are hoping to capitalise on home advantage. I think we have fared very well in our debut season. We are only new to this league and it feels good to be among quarter-finalists. It s only fair that we have drawn Tsholotsho who are not among the giants of the league. We are definitely going for the cup. In fact we are familiar with winning cups. Remember when we got promoted we had also won the Yadah Cup in Division One, said Gasitene.Chibuku Super Cup quarter-final fixtures Saturday: ZPC Kariba v Harare City (Nyamhunga), Ngezi Platinum v Tsholotsho (Baobab).Sunday: How Mine v Highlanders (Barbourfields), Triangle v FC Platinum (Gibbo).