Sports ReporterDYNAMOS team manager Richard Chihoro says they are not playing for anyone, but themselves, when they face FC Platinum in a Castle Lager Premiership tie at Mandava tomorrow. Chihoro said the Glamour Boys were looking at winning their remaining six league matches, including tomorrow s game. We are playing for ourselves. We want to finish in a very good position and remember we are ten points behind FC Platinum if we win we would be seven points behind them with five games to go and this is football and no one knows what will happen, said Chihoro. We are ready for FC Platinum and morale is high and everyone is raring to go. We are taking each game as it comes, but would want to win all our remaining matches. He said FC Platinum were likely to come out fighting with intensity after they dropped points in their last game.Dynamos lost 0-1 to FC Platinum at Rufaro in the reverse fixture in coach Lloyd Mutasa s first game after the departure of Portuguese gaffer Paulo Silva. They will be at home, they are hungry for points and want to win the league. But we are also looking for points. Last season we finished on second position so we really want to finish in a strong position even if we fail to lift the trophy, said Chihoro.Meanwhile, Chibuku Super Cup quarter-finalists will know their next round opponents on Tuesday when the draw is conducted in Gweru.Defending champions Harare City, newboys Ngezi Platinum, league pacesetters FC Platinum, Bulawayo sides Highlanders and How Mine, Triangle, Tsholotsho and ZPC Kariba are the last eight teams in the competition.The Chibuku Super Cup will resume on the weekend of September 30 to October 2.The semi-finals will be staged on the weekend of October 21 to 23 while the team which will represent the country in the Confederation Cup next year will be known on November 5 when the last two teams battle for supremacy.ZPC Kariba coach Sunday Chidzambwa said he is ready for any side left in the draw. If a team progresses, it means they are a good team and Cup games are all about luck on that day. I would love to win the Chibuku Super Cup, but if I had my way I would love to win both and the League Cup. FixturesTomorrow: Chapungu v Bulawayo City (Ascot), FC Platinum v Dynamos (Mandava).Sunday: Highlanders v Ngezi Platinum (Babourfields, SS), Hwange v Border Strikers (Colliery), CAPS United v How Mine (National Sports Stadium), Mutare City v ZPC Kariba (Sakubva), Triangle v Chicken Inn (Gibbo).