CHASKA. Two-time major winner Jordan Spieth says the US Ryder Cup golf team is looking to pay tribute to Arnold Palmer this week after his death and bringing home the trophy would certainly qualify. The Americans have lost three in a row, six of seven and eight of the past 10 Ryder Cup showdowns to Europe ahead of Friday s start of the 41st biennial matches at Hazeltine. As Team USA, we re all looking to do something to honour him this week, Spieth said. We all learned a lot from him. We would not be who we are on and off the course if it were not for him. The US flag flies at half staff over the suburban Minneapolis course to pay homage to Palmer, who died on Sunday at age 87 of heart issues. Palmer was the first superstar of American golf, the first true celebrity sportsman. He attracted passionate supporters known as Arnie s Army and lifted golf into the television age and beyond, serving as an inspiration to many of today s top stars. He was the first cool guy to play golf, said US Ryder Cup player Jimmy Walker. Nobody did anything more for golf than Arnie did. He was one of the greatest personalities in golf ever. He had a love for the game. It showed to the end. Black and white video highlights of Palmer in his prime, a US sports-TV staple since his death, fail to capture the go-for-broke style that made him popular or the fan-friendly manner and charm that made the seven-time major winner iconic for how he played in addition to how well he played. All athletes owe him a debt. He paved the way for us, Spieth said. He was a role model and golf s greatest friend. I still think it s underrated how much he contributed to golf. This will be a tough loss for golf going forward. Reactions from those trying to work on their putting on a windy Monday at Hazeltine were grief-filled. It s just sadness, two-time major winner Zach Johnson said. He was such a great person. I don t believe you can quantify or put into words what he has done for golf. Europe star Lee Westwood of England put it in simple terms: Professional golf is what it is today because of Arnold. AFP.