Nyaradzo Viki MavindidzeRuth Butaumocho: Gender Editor When choosing careers, a majority of students usually opt for formal and mainstream careers that feed into people s day to day requirements. Mechanics, health, education, art and manufacturing become the mainstay for most students. However, that was not the case with Nyaradzo Viki Mavindidze, who was not fascinated by the formalities associated with each. With her eloquence in languages Nyaradzo knew she would make a living as a word-smith. She was not far from the mark.Nyaradzo is a life coach, who has been able to inspire change and transform lives through different motivational seminars, talks and training programmes. I am an intellectual, interested in behavioural change. I have a knack of creating order out of chaos, she revealed in an interview recently.Nyaradzo is the managing consultant of Avodah Consultant and has successfully branded herself as a renowned speaker, training consultant, coach, author and a philanthropist.A psychologist by profession, she is passionate about helping people improve; excel in their lives, holistically, shifting personal paradigms and beliefs through training.She was recently nominated for the Zimbabwe International Women s Awards, which would be held in England in October for her determination and passion in transforming lives and communities through motivational speaking.Over the years, she has become a force to reckon with in dissemination of lasting solutions to performance deficiencies.With success in life coaching and motivational speaking normally associated with maturity, the same has not applied to Nyaradzo who in her mid 30s, have even conducted coaching clinics across Africa. I know a lot of people say wisdom come with age, but that has not deterred me to follow my dreams and passion in this area, which I cherish so much, enthused the diminutive speaker.It is the same passion that her guardians identified whilst she was still in primary school in Mutare that she was miles ahead of siblings when it comes to ingenuity, even though her teachers thought otherwise.By the time she got into secondary school, Nyaradzo had already carved the social and economic paths she intended to pursue once she completed her studies. At one time law appealed to me, but I wanted a career that would expand my territory. It was during that time that I realised that I wanted to become an independent woman, having been raised by grandmother, who instilled important virtues. It was from her that I learnt women can be complete without the support of relationships, she said.Soon after her secondary education, Nyaradzo started a business as a soft skills trainer focusing on personal branding, training and coaching. I was born a natural public speaker, so I had no problems with presentation. It was one area I was comfortable with right from the start, she recalls.During her first two years in business, she established a strong foundation, while nurturing her clientele base, which surprisingly was made up of big corporate organisations despite her limited exposure. My business grew organically, especially by reference because I was fairly new and did not have much exposure. The few training programmes that I had were quite impressive and a lot of people encouraged me to apply to Mandel Training Centre to become an associate trainer, she said.Her application was accepted, opening more opportunities for her in that field. Sometimes it is important to brand ourselves in the best way we would want to be remembered for. We need to bring out the best in us so that we become specialists in those areas, said Nyaradzo.While financial benefit will always be on top of every entrepreneur s list, Nyaradzo says she is motivated by achieving sustainable success through a healthy workplace culture.It is because of her passion to bring transformational change and her reputation for boundless energy which has made her popular keynote speaker at conferences and conventions.Despite her efforts in branding herself as a committed life coach, Nyaradzo concedes that the sailing has not been smooth.The economic environment has seen business going down and in some instances she has had to shift her business models to sustain operations. When the economic environment is turbulent, most companies want to cut down on costs and the first thing they do is to scale down training programmes. That has adversely affected us in so many ways but we remain optimistic that the situation will improve, she said.With the economic dynamics continue to play up in almost every organisation, Nyaradzo is also strengthening her philanthropic activities, where she is currently involved in mentoring the girl child through a platform called the QueenMakers. QueenMakers is a platform for networking, synergising and unveiling partnerships through information, education and unpacking opportunities that lie within Zimbabwe for disadvantaged female students, I believe each one of us can create spaces, opportunities and platforms to motivate inspire and assist those who are from less privileged communities. With QueenMakers, we have been able to do that and we will continue to do more, she said.She added that QueenMakers pursues proactive strategies to develop and empower women and girls to take on leadership in their communities through training, mentoring and coaching.QueenMakers recently held an open day where each participant was partnered with an established and professional mentor so that they get the hands on experience of different careers, projects or enterprises through their mentors. Many are born into families who don t work in corporates, run businesses nor work in professions such as engineering, aviation, banking, medicine or law. Thus many would lack exposure and positive advice about their careers which, in the long run, will have an impact on their confidence, self-belief and ambitions. We believe, that this day even though it is once a year will have a far-reaching impact. Showing girls working places and early encouragement to work will motivate and inspire them to reach their full potential. 