Christopher Farai Charamba Correspondent Knowledge is power, and for one to acquire knowledge they need information. Thomas Jefferson once said; information is the currency of democracy. This is why the media is valued highly, as it is the institution relied upon to inform the public about what is transpiring within that specific society. Access to information is important in any society as it creates a system and a culture of transparency and accountability. These two instruments, transparency and accountability, are vital to the development of a society and play a key role in curbing corruption.In his book The Bottom Billion, Oxford Professor of Economics and Public Policy, Sir Paul Collier, gives a practical example of how public scrutiny, transparency and accountability in Uganda contributed to availing more funding to schools in the country.Transparency policies implemented by the Education Ministry in Uganda were instrumental in the reduction of corruption that took place during the disbursement of funds between 1996 and 2002.Writes Collier; Each time the Ministry of Finance released money it informed the local media, and it also sent a poster to each school setting out what it should be getting . . . Now, instead of only 20 percent getting through to the schools, 90 percent was getting through. In state-of-the-art statistical research that analysed this experiment in detail, (Ritva) Reinikka and her colleague Jakob Svensson were able to demonstrate that the media had been decisive in this case reports in newspapers. So scrutiny turned 20 percent into 90 percent more effective than doubling aid and doubling it again. In a separate study on this assertion in Collier s book, Paul Hubbard states that transparency policies were not the only reason that schools were able to access more funding, but were one of a number.The accountability system in Uganda did, however, improve considerably once it was public knowledge as to how much schools were meant to be receiving from their District Education Offices (DEO). Not only were the DEOs under more pressure to ensure that the funding was disbursed to the schools, but now parents and school development councils had access to this information and could hold the school heads accountable on how the money was being spent.Zimbabwe has had a number of corruption scandals making the news over the past couple of years. These scandals have involved Government institutions, parastatals, local government entities and even private companies.Corruption in the public or private sector has detrimental effects on society as a whole. In fact, it is often the people at the bottom who suffer the most while those at the top get off scot free or with little to no repercussions.Wells Fargo is a fresh example where 5 300 employees were fired for a scam in which they fleeced $2,6 million out of people by illegally signing them up for phony accounts. The CEO however, who earned $19,3 million last year, has kept his job and shifted blame to his subordinates.But I digress, the issue here is the access to information and it contributing to transparency and accountability. What can Zimbabwe learn from the example posited by Collier in his book? How can there be greater accountability in public office particularly where corruption has become endemic?The Government of Zimbabwe recently introduced a command agriculture scheme that is to be financed by a $500 million facility. The programme aims to produce two million tonnes of maize, enough to meet the national demand, on selected 400 000 hectares of land.In order to fulfil this desire, selected farmers will be provided with inputs, irrigation and mechanised equipment. Thus far, a facility of $85 million is already in place and being coordinated through the Office of the President and Cabinet with insurance companies and pension funds having, in addition, mobilised $41 million to complement Government s efforts.Government is confident that the funding for the command agriculture initiative will be available for the 2016/17 farming season. Five hundred million dollars is, however, a lot of money. When such large amounts are mentioned one cannot help, but fear that there will be those with sticky fingers who would relish the opportunity to dip their hands into the command agriculture piggy bank.Looking at the track record of corruption in Zimbabwe and the minimal number of prosecution or consequences following its exposure, one s fears have a strong basis. The success of the command agriculture, however, is dependent on efficient use of the resources made available.As such it is imperative that there be transparency and accountability where the command agriculture programme is concerned. Similar to the anti-corruption policies in Uganda, the Government of Zimbabwe should publish in the media full records of the funding they have set aside for command agriculture as well as how this money has been allocated and utilised.If the finances are to be disbursed by the District Development Fund (DDF) for example then it should be known in the public, how much was allocated to each DFF office.In fact, before that, it would be prudent for the public to know who the targeted farmers are for the project, what type of farms and how much crop they are expected to grow. Following on from that information should be provided as to what inputs they are expected to receive or have received as well as other resources such as mechanisation tools.By providing this information a performance pressure and accountability level is placed on the farmer to ensure that they fulfil their mandate. The media of their own accord can easily follow up on these farmers throughout the season and see if they are meeting their targets set out in the programme once this information is gazetted.What one fears is a situation where a farmer is provided with X litres of fuel for the command agriculture programme and he ends up selling some of that fuel to make some cash. Or where fuel is allocated, but it does not reach the farmers because some top Government officials divert it for their private consumption.Not only does this provision of information seek to hold farmers accountable, but also Government officials who will be responsible for the implementation of the command agriculture. They will be forced to ensure that at each stage targets are met because it is not only their superiors they have to report to or are watching, but the public at large.Indeed, such measures will not eliminate corruption if it is to take place, but they will make it more difficult and hopefully be a deterrent to those who would wish to act corruptly.The media has a pivotal role to ensure that those handling and carrying out the command agriculture programme are doing so within the provisions of their mandate. This however, can only be accomplished if information is made accessible and available to all.Zimbabwe is an agro-based economy and thus the importance of the command agriculture programme goes beyond feeding the nation. As a national project of such a nature, it is vital that it be successful and this can be ensured if there is accountability and transparency.