Isaiah 48 vs 17; Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the Lord your God, who teaches you what is best for you, who directs you in the way you should go. I learnt a very important lesson this weekend from a friend who has made it his mission to share the word. He does it with heart and passion and he does it so well.He illustrated the concept of being saved in a way that was very simple, yet it totally spoke to me. I have always wondered whether it is possible to be totally devoid of sin and wrongdoing in one s life. I have often noted the difficulty we all face in trying to consistently be good people, it s a lot easier to do bad on a regular basis than to totally turn from evil and walk on the straight and narrow. We are all more akin to receiving and listening to scripture that specifically speaks about our fortunes changing than messages that castigate us on the need to stop sinning.Thus being the case, I guess the question often comes up on how God views sin in our lives. It is His desire that we become better, however, having noted that of our own volition we are unable to come to a point where we are right with Him, He allowed Jesus Christ to die on the cross with the sole intention of bearing our sin in a manner that was found acceptable for us to be forgiven.His sacrifice was found to be the perfect and ultimate sacrifice acceptable to God, it washed us anew.This process is a gift that we do not deserve, but it s been given to us anyway. Through this one act we have been reconciled to the father, should we so desire.In trying to explain this, my friend placed two chairs facing opposite directions alongside each other. He then explained that these two chairs represent two groups of people.The first are those that have not been given or have not accepted the enlightenment of God and the second are those that have accepted the gift of grace that has been given to them.Those without knowledge continue on their merry way, devoid of the need to change, reform or be aligned with their maker. Play your part by seeking to fellowship with God in a deeper way and you will be convicted of the wrong and shown the path to right.Be blessed.&nbsp;For more info: Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.org; e-mail us on: [email&#160;protected]; catch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours.