Mr ChidemeThe Interview Innocent RuwendeLIR: Harare City Council has passed the Harare (Cycle Licensing) By-Laws of 2016 which have been subject to different interpretations. Can you explain the nature of these by-laws? Is the City of Harare now allowing hand and animal drawn carts? Does the new by-law augur well with the city s vision to achieve a World Class City status by 2025? MC: This is a new by-law that has come into play to plug loopholes. We have not had such a by-law resulting in us failing to control/enforce the use of animal drawn carts, and push carts. If you read the by-law it strictly says no person SHALL. The licensing we refer to in the by-law talks to exceptional cases like weddings, state functions or any other such functions that require the use of the animal drawn carts.Harare is on a vision to becoming a world class city by 2025. We have no time and energy to return the city to the middle ages. By legislating against the wanton use of carts in the city we are upholding the values of a world class city.As a city we exist to provide and promote trafficable roads. There is therefore no way we can legislate for the use of animal drawn carts or pushcarts in the City especially with the levels of congestion obtaining. We are a forward looking entity that respects the dictates of sound urban planningThe by-law should be celebrated because it seeks to bring order in the city.Previously there has not been any legislation to control the use of pushcarts, animal drawn carts and cycles in Harare. The city could therefore not enforce against the use of the same.The new Harare (cycle licensing) by-law that is subject of ridicule actually provides for the regulation of cycles which come in various forms such as pushcarts, animal drawn carts and handcarts.Section 4 of the by-law categorically states that No person shall use on any road and cycle . . . unless it has been licensed . . . The general rule therefore is that cycles are prohibited except in exceptional circumstances. In such exceptional cases a person will have to apply for a license. The exceptional cases refer to events like weddings and or state functions that require horse drawn carts. This means one cannot use an animal drawn cart at a wedding without express authority from council.The by-law empowers the city to regulate the use of pushcarts used by vendors who block roads causing congestion and causing traffic accidents.The by-law criminalises the use of such cycles without license. The by-law empowers the city to enforce effectively.IR: What other measures is the city taking to decongest the city?MC: Establishment of holding bays for kombis. So far one holding bay is complete and functional. We are also looking at completing all one way streets as well as upgrading the four ranks into modern day bus interchanges.We are also going to upgrade Mbare Musika national bus terminus and introducing more national bus termini as well as re-introducing an Integrated Bus Mass transit system.We are also reviewing our traffic bylaws to make sure they are in tandem with the current operating environment.IR: Some errant Kombis are not using the Coventry Parking Bay. What corrective measures are being taken to ensure that there is compliance since you are going to add more parking bays?MC: Very soon we are going on a blitz to enforce these by-laws. Those refusing will be impounded and fined. We have mobilised the necessary support from ZRP to enforce.IR: Kombi operators have vowed that they are not going to pay for rank discs for October because council is failing to protect them from pirate taxis and you are also not proving them with shades and lighting what is your comment?MC: Failure to pay means they do not want to be in business. The onus to respect the law rests with them. We will have no choice but to enforce the payment of the rank discs to ensure we have enough resources to manage traffic in the City.IR: What is council doing about the problem of Mushishika? It seems the city is no longer enforcing its by-laws. It is said traffic officers have softened their stance on errant kombis following a spate of arrests and imprisonment of some of their colleagues?MC: We remain vigilant to what we should do to contain Mushikashika. Our traffic enforcement is very much on the ground with support from ZRP. We are doing all we can under the circumstances. Our officers are committed to rid the city of pirate taxis.IR: The city council seems to be losing the war against pirate taxis and kombis are you not supported by by-laws?MC: This is the reason why we are bringing in new by-laws and reviewing existing ones to capacitate us to deliver our mandate.We will continue to review our bylaws to make them conform to modern trends. We do not speak the language of failure.IR: What other by-laws are in the pipeline?MC: We have the Harare Omnibus amendment, which will, inter-alia, result in the arrest of commuters who board kombis on undesignated areas. The by-law has already been submitted to the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing.We also have Clamping and Tow Away by-laws draft which is awaiting the Environment Management Committee approval.Government has already approved the Harare (Traffic) (Amendment) By-laws, 2016 (No 3) which is set to deal with touts who cling on vehicles.IR: Your parting shot.MC: The truth survives the test of time. We are a regulatory authority. We shall always review and regulate new areas.