Court ReporterA Russian man accused of using fake documents to apply for Zimbabwean passports is today expected to bring medical results from Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Service doctors after prosecution accused him of faking illness to stall court proceedings. Steven Paul Sugden (41) was ordered to be examined again by ZPCS doctors after State rejected Government doctors results. He was remanded in custody pending the examination.This came after he asked for eight weeks to seek further medical attention.In his application through his lawyer Mr Admire Rubaya, Sugden said he needs to undergo tests and operations. Accused is sick and need eight weeks off. He has been in and out of hospital, he needs to rest, said Mr Rubaya. He needs to undergo certain tests and operations and since his passport is with the clerk of court, he will drive to Beitbridge and his South African doctors will meet him there for the operations. The prosecutor Ms Francesca Mukumbiri opposed the application insisting that accused was feigning illness. Accused religiously attended court and his illness began after his application for discharge was dismissed. Afterwards he applied for stay of proceedings pending a High Court review and the application was dismissed. Soon after that accused fell ill. Ms Mukumbiri said she accepted documents for the doctors although there were inconsistencies. State phoned a number on the doctor s papers and the recipient said they don t know accused, she said. I called again and the person said they have him as a new patient. This is strange because accused doctor said he is his long time patient. Accused is feigning illness and State doubt and cannot accept the letter from the Government doctors. Accused should be examined by a prison doctor and if the results are the same State will be satisfied. In his ruling Mr Mahwe said the matter started in December last year and it will not be complete any time soon. Normally cases take three months. State raised a red flag before and raises another now. The court cannot ignore that, said Mr Mahwe.The matter was postponed to September 26 pending results from the prison doctors.Ms Mukumbiri alleged that sometime in April, 2012 Sugden applied for a passport at the Registrar-General s office in Bindura using a fake birth certificate entry number GZI 266/74.Sugden also used a fake national identity card bearing registration number 70-0037720-F, it is alleged.Subsequently the Registrar General s office allegedly issued him with a passport which is valid till 2022.Using the same fake documents, sometime in December 2012, Sugden allegedly applied for another passport in Chinhoyi.Investigations revealed that the birth entry number used by Sugden belonged to a woman called Sarudzai Kufa.The court heard that the identity card used belonged to Mr White Jere.