Prudence Zvikomborero Mavura of Murambinda B Secondary in Buhera, Manicaland (left), Rehlutsi Victoria Magabo of Mosi-a-Tunya High in Victoria Falls (right) and their chaperon Mrs Moreblessing Zoraunye Sibanda during a send-off to the Sadc Essay Writing Competition in Mbabane, Swaziland, where they clinched first and second place. Picture by Memory MangombePraise Bvumbamera : Herald ReporterA whizz-kid from Murambinda B Secondary School in Buhera, Prudence Zvikomborero Mavura, has raised the country s flag high after scooping the prestigious Sadc secondary schools essay writing award. Mavura was handed over the award by Sadc outgoing chairman President Ian Khama of Botswana during the 36th Sadc Heads of State and Government Summit in Swaziland. She beat 44 other contestants drawn from Sadc member states.The second prize went to another Zimbabwean pupil, Rehlutsi Victoria Magabo from Mosi-a-Tunya High School in Victoria Falls.Speaking to The Herald yesterday, an elated Mavura said: We are happy and proud for winning top prizes in this competition. This is the first time in the history of this competition that top two positions go to participants from the same country. Mavura encouraged other pupils to take part in the competitions and aim high in their studies: I want to show the nation that no matter where you come from, you just have to be self-driven and inspirational, she said. You can never know what you can do unless you try. She paid tribute to her schoolteacher and mentor Mr Joseph Kufa for supporting and encouraging her.Mavura said Mr Kufa assisted her to do research on the proposed Sadc topic.Mr Kufa who was accompanying her said: I am happy for her co-operation and these are her individual efforts through research. We have an essay club at our school where we nurture our kids in essay writing. This is not the first time that Prudence has done us proud. Last year she got the second prize in the same competition in Botswana. Locally, she has received several awards in essay writing and I urge her to continue working hard. She has proved that she can do wonders for our country and despite that she is coming from a small school in the rural areas she has managed to conquer the region. For coming first in the competition, Mavura received a laptop, tablet and a cash prize of $1 500.Magabo from Mosi-a-Tunya High School also walked away with a laptop, smartphone and a cash prize of $1 000.The essays topic was derived from themes which are discussed when summits are held and the topic was: Accelerating industrialisation in Sadc Economies Through Transformation of Natural Endowment and Improved Human Capital. Students are provided with six guiding questions which help them come up with an essay.