Sports Reporter KAIZER Chiefs coach Steve Komphela has praised Michelle Katsvairo after the Zimbabwean grabbed his first goal for the South African giants in a mid-week victory over Free State Stars. Katsvairo opened his account after compatriot Willard Katsande had handed Amakosi the advantage from the penalty spot on their way to a 2-0 victory over Free State Stars on Wednesday night.Fellow Zimbabwean Kingston Nkatha was also on target when he gave Supersport United an early lead in the 1-1 draw against Golden Arrows in a match they finished with 10 men after Onismor Bhasera was sent off for a second booking.Komphela told the South African media that he has always believed in Katsvairo and was happy his hard work was starting to pay off.He said the goal will help boost his confidence as the season progresses. I m happy for Katsvairo he s been working very hard. He s got touches he can play with the defender on his back, he gets into the right areas. And now a goal will be a boost because you know how strikers are. They can make great runs they can create and make but up until they take it they are never satisfied, said Komphela.The former FC Platinum and Chicken Inn forward opened his account when he controlled George Lebese s pass into the box and then beat the goalkeeper at the neat post with the aid of a deflection.Katsvairo joined Chiefs a few months ago alongside former Chicken Inn teammate Edmore Chirambadare but the duo have had a slow start.His goal, however, should give him the lift he needed after making his second league start and fourth appearance.The 26-year old forward said he is already feeling like part of the Amakhosi family after scoring his first goal.Katsvairo said he was grateful for Komphela s support. Ja, he (the coach) always tells me to push and it s working now, of course (the understanding between the players at Chiefs is getting better), he told SuperSport. I would like to thank all the players because they are taking me as a family, so I think it s the best thing because we are working as a team. As a striker my job is to score so I was waiting for it and I would like to thank God for it, said Katsvairo.Chiefs are now on top of the table with 10 points from five starts.Zimbabwe s national team skipper Katsande, who was voted man-of-the-match, told Soccer Laduma Magazine he believes the players have begun to understand Komphela s philosophy.The victory was the side s third in succession in the league. Every time we play them it s a physical game. The coach told us to stick to our game plan and try to bypass them. They were pressing us, but we tried to stay calm. I think we deserve the three points today. Credit must go to the guys. Sometimes it takes time to get used to coaches and their philosophy. I think now we understand the coach s philosophy, said Katsande.Chiefs now enter a two-week break from club football and are only back in action on October 15 when they host Ajax Cape Town at the Moses Mabhida Stadium.