Bishop B. Manjoro : DunamisTalking is good, planning is also good yet the one thing that is critical for you to enjoy the things of God is action stepping out! Read on and discover how this powerful key can turn around your life. And saith (Jesus) unto them, Go your way into the village over against you: and as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied, wherein never man sat; loose him and bring him. And if any man say unto you, Why do ye this? Say ye that the Lord hath need of him; and straight away he will send him hither. And they went their way, and found the colt tied by the door without in a place where two ways met; and they loosed him. And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt? And they said unto them even as Jesus had commanded: and they let them go. And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their garments on him; and he sat upon him. And many spread their garments in the way: and others cut down branches off the trees, and strawed them in the way. And they that went before, and they that followed, cried saying, Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord , Mark 11:2-9.In the story the donkey can resemble people greatly looked down upon and seen as nobodies! Are you being looked down upon? Told you are useless, inferior and less than a person? Be it at work, family, school or wherever you are right now? I have a good word for you; you are somebody! With Jesus in your life, you are somebody! You need to yield and allow him to be Lord and Saviour of your life. He takes the nobodies of the world and makes them great people! The donkey was an ordinary donkey, but Jesus made it experience the greatest time of its life. It seized the moment.However, you will notice that you can be saved like the donkey which was untied where it was bound yet somehow things don t seem to move in life.Finances in a turmoil; marriage on the rocks, health fast deteriorating, projects stuck! Fear not.Don t panic, God hasn t left you nor abandoned you! He is able. Not only able to save your situation, no, but to give you more than enough. We serve a God of abundance. The day and hour has come for all people to have more than enough!But here is the problem; if you don t step out into your purpose you miss out on the season. The donkey, after being untied, did not hesitate, fear, run or jostle, no.It stepped out into what was set before it. Its hour had come. The hour for purpose!Friends listen to me; you are created for a purpose.There is a reason why you are here; and a reason why you are reading this article right now.There is greatness in you but if you just sit, do nothing, refuse to move nothing will move. You will miss your season! In this season of a double portion, friends, listen to me, don t fear, step backwards; run away or shy away from you purpose! Shake off inferiority complex; go ahead and be the person God created and fashioned you to be, O hallelujah!If it s in business where you sense called, don t fear! Go for your purpose, take action.It s a season not to be missed. Don t miss the season your season!Actually there are many businesspeople that have been operating below their capacity for a long time.They have been telling themselves, Aa it s difficult, how will I manage it! Come on, the hour has come, the time is now when things get tough the tough get going!You could be asking right now, Eh but pastor me, of all people in my family and tribe to live a successful and abundant life? Come on; Yes you, of all the people. God is not a respector of persons.Take note, when we talk of abundant life we are not just talking of money, guavas, or cucumbers. We also mean abundant peace, abundant joy.What good does it do to you to have five cars and yet you still can t sleep in the night afraid of things crawling and howling in the ceiling?Imagine a house with big sofas but no one laughs in that house.You look at each other with the corner of the eye with your spouse! Aaa no, no, no a good day has come your way in Jesus name!Elisha did what he saw Elijah do.You don t even know you are carrying grace until you take action.If you don t speak to devils and cast them out you don t know you can cast them. You start somewhere.Some of you are not even realising that you are coming from one season into another season because you are still the same. But you are moving from one season to another.God is taking you to higher heights and higher dimensions.Something supernatural is coming your way.Something greater and above! You are getting close to your purpose. Step out!If you were longing for a baby, the baby is coming, cheer up; refuse to be discouraged. The baby is coming! For with God all things are possible , Mark 10:27.Prayer of Salvation if you have never received Jesus as your Lord and Saviour take action by praying out the prayer below: Lord Jesus, I come to you, I seek grace, be the Lord of my life. I confess with my mouth that you died for me on the cross and rose on the third day. With your grace, I will follow you all the days of my life. I m saved, thank you Jesus, Amen. 