Snr Asst Comm CharambaHerald Reporter Zimbabwe People First activists in Mashonaland Central Province led by former Ambassador and Retired Brigadier-General Agrippa Mutambara, allegedly fired gunshots at zanu-pf youths who were going about their business in Guruve on Sunday. Police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba, confirmed the fracas yesterday saying investigations were underway to apprehend the culprits. We are investigating cases of use of fire arms and public violence in Guruve on Sunday, she said. Information at hand shows that there was public violence that occurred in Guruve on September 25 involving members of Zimbabwe People First party who clashed with zanu-pf members. We are still investigating what transpired, but as the police, we will not tolerate any form of violence from any party. Perpetrators of that violence will be arrested. So, we want to urge political parties to desist from engaging in violence. In an interview with The Herald from Guruve yesterday, zanu-pf provincial chairperson for Mashonaland Central Province, Cde Isaiah Mandaza accused ZimPF activists of starting the violence. They came to Guruve saying they were looking for one of their members Obert Mutasa who used to be zanu-pf secretary for finance in the Youth League, and when they met one of our ward youth chairpersons, Cde Nido. They started assaulting him for no reason, said Cde Mandaza. Some of our members took Cde Nido to the clinic and the ZimPF people proceeded with their journey. But again, they started attacking everyone they knew belonged to zanu-pf. The team was led by ZimPF provincial chairperson Titus Manyika and Mutambara. They had three pistols and a rifle but when zanu-pf members started defending themselves, one of the cars sped off before the driver lost control and rammed into a tree. Efforts to get a comment from ZimPF spokesperson Mr Jealousy Mawarire were fruitless.But on Sunday evening, Mr Mawarire tweeted a picture of Rtd Brig-Gen Mutambara and his colleagues captioned: Rtd Brig-Gen Mutambara and other ZimPF supporters were beaten by axe-wielding zanu-pf farm invaders in Guruve today. 