Lovemore Meya Lifestyle Correspondent The thought of visiting Zimbabwe for the first time might not entice a foreigner because of the negative publicity the country gets from the outside world. Some international media organisations paint a negative picture of the country and many visitors that come to the country get surprised about the sharp contrast between the images and the reality on the ground. Many tourists that visit the country have confessed that they were given wrong impressions about the situation in Zimbabwe and most of them always show enthusiasm for more tours.Such was the case in a recent visit by New Zealand tourists Susan and her husband Graham Galger, his brother Bevan, and Markus Hadipurnomo members of Hope Church in Christ Church.As members of Tariro Hope Foundation founded by Faustinah Ndlovu of Tandi Mandimika Village, Rusape in Manicaland Province, they decided to visit the area to access progress made through the initiative and took the opportunity to the rural setting before going to the popular tourist attractions.Village tourism is one aspect that many tourists to Africa consider, yet in Zimbabwe most visitors decide to keep their destinations to known resorts because of preconceived bad images.When Ndlovu took her New Zealand team to see how their Tariro Hope has benefited the community, the visitors were surprised by what they saw in the village and they also enjoyed the stay.They spent a week in the village before embarking on a national voyage. During their stay, they had quality time in a rural set up where they did everything one could do at his or her homestead. I have been welcomed into Faustinah s home (at Ndlovu homestead) by participating in everything they do, said Susan. For me to be able to see how a village functions was a huge privilege in comparison to what we would have discovered if we had depended on information from other sources. I have been impressed with the set-up of villages. We took in different tasks done in the villages. Each of these buildings is like a little room, which is totally different from us because our houses will be all in one building. It seems everyone has their freedom in their own small rooms. She said Zimbabwean culture cultivates a spirit of unison. Back home when we get into our cars it is done. We do not greet anyone as we drive by while in here people pass greetings to each other a sign of unity. We sometimes do not even know our neighbours, she chuckled. You have a very good social structure, it is very supportive and I think that is a real strength for Zimbabwean people. I know that things are not right economically but the fact that you look after each other is very commendable. And to experience the village life more, Susan had the opportunity to join other women cooking sadza, fetching firewood and fetching water.Graham said, We did not really know what to expect and the friendship that we got from Faustinah s place and other villagers is amazing. It was quite humbling and I think we can take a lot back home it is a new experience. We have what we call a nuclear family that is immediate: mother, father, brothers and sisters and that is all about it. This is really a great insight for me, I love it and one feels very proud sticking together for each other. He admitted that life in Zimbabwean was hard work and for him to be taught to put a yoke on oxen as the greatest experience.It was also the same story for Bevan who said, I also enjoyed the wonderful hospitality of the Zimbabwean people throughout the country and in particular while staying near Rusape as we worked with the local folk on the kindergarten project known as Tariro. Hadipurnomo said, I can simply summarise this experience and say it is like staying in a five star hotel, watching the beautiful sky and its shining stars in a serene environment After the village experience, the quartet drove to Gweru and later went separate ways with Hadipurnomo who headed to Tanzania.They visited a number of game parks including Hwange and Antelope Park in Gweru. We were fortunate to see many of the wild animals that Africa has to offer, and generally we are pretty happy with how that aspect of the trip went. This sums up our Zimbabwean experience. We were invigorated by our visit and have developed an amazing respect for the courage and personal faith we witnessed within the Zimbabwean people. Their kindness and friendliness is beyond expectations and we felt blessed to be welcomed by them. Zimbabwe is still a very beautiful country blessed with kind, gentle, God loving people.