Proverbs 11 vs 2 When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with the humble is wisdom. Change is the only constant in life, things always change, they do not remain the same. When a person undergoes transition, especially one that involves altered circumstances, they require strength from above to cope with the change.One of the most difficult things for any one is to go through a transition. Nothing is more difficult than a transition, whether it is transition for the better or transition for worse. The period leading to an anticipated change can be very difficult.Promotion or demotion brings about a rush of emotion, whichever way. With promotion there is euphoria and an adrenaline rush leading to the moment of glory. With a demotion comes humiliation, anger and resentment towards those who are responsible for what may have occurred.Many fail at the point of their success because they treat the promotion as a period of free falling and doing all and sundry, they become vain and proud. On the other hand, transition in the negative can cause someone to run away from the world, shut people out and isolate themselves.When Saul was anointed king, he allowed the power he had received to get to his head. He went on to be involved in unthinkable acts, he forgot what had led him to the throne and at times he allowed his character to degenerate to such a depth that the devil would take hold of him.Human nature is somewhat like that, we sometimes get so caught up in the present that the past becomes a distant memory that we try to forget. Very often those that have been promoted fall on their swords as a result of this mistaken belief that they have become greater than God. We often speak about the challenges of life but somehow never quite see what happens with answered prayers and promotion.In our lifetime we will experience moments of promotion, the true test of our character and our belief system will be revealed through the manner we deal with these moments. Many a person has lost their soul when their reality meets their prayers.Very soon, you too will experience promotion and favour, how will you deal with this transition? Will this be your moment of failure or it will be the moment you praise the Lord, become humble and give glory to Him?It is human to be forgetful, we should however never allow that to be the point that alters us and changes our destiny and character forever.Be blessed!For More Info:Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.orgEmail us on [email&#160;protected]Catch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours