Daniel Nemukuyu: Senior Court ReporterIN an incident that set tongues wagging at the Constitutional Court building in Harare yesterday, a former Olivine Industries employee took out a rope from his pocket and threatened to hang himself in protest over an unfavourable labour judgment . The incident occurred while Mr Albert Dzapasi was seated at a reception area outside the Chambers of the Deputy Chief Justice Luke Malaba. He was demanding permission to see the Chief Justice or his deputy with a view to have a Supreme Court judgment in his case reversed on benevolence. While the DCJ s secretary was trying to assist him, he reportedly turned violent and got into some suicidal mood.He took out a rope that was rolled in his pocket and threatened to tie himself with it. The court staff had to call the police. Armed police took him out of the building for counselling.This reporter caught up with the irate Mr Dzapasi while he was telling his story to the crowd that had gathered outside the court building. Now I am finished. I am no longer a person. I am as good as dead, and I do not have any reason to live. I am already dead. My case was straightforward, but I was surprised to hear that I lost the case, said Mr Dzapasi. I will be very happy to be locked up by the police. I worked for the company for 17 years, but I have nothing to show. I did not even get a cent from the company. I was fired for no good reason, said Mr Dzapasi.Mr Dzapasi and his colleague Tonderai Muocha, who were supervisors at Olivine Industries, were fired in 2003 for mis- conduct.The Labour Court set aside the duo s conviction and dismissal and ordered their reinstatement.Olivine Industries appealed to the Supreme Court, which allowed the appeal and confirmed the duo s dismissal from work some 10 years ago.Ten years after the Supreme Court judgment, Mr Dzapasi is now contesting the decision through the office of the Chief Justice.Among Mr Dzapasi s bunch of papers was a letter by the Chief Registrar of Superior Courts Mr Sithembinkosi Msipa informing him of the Chief Justice s position on his complaint. We placed your letter before the Chief Justice who commented as follows: Please advise the writers that the letter written by the Chief Registrar dated March 8 2016 correctly reflects the position and that I consider the matter closed. A meeting with me does not serve any purpose. 