Prof MpeperekiPraise Bvumbamera : Herald ReporterGovernment has appointed renowned scientist and academic Professor Sheunesu Mpepereki as the new board chairman of the Central Mechanical Equipment Department (CMED). Professor Mpepereki replaces the late Mr Leslie John Denn, who died in May 2016. Announcing the appointment in Harare yesterday, Transport and Infrastructural Development Deputy Minister Engineer Mike Madanha said CMED is a key department in Government s operations.He challenged Prof Mpepereki and his board to work hard to transform CMED. CMED is a strategic institution to Government as it is a centralised entity for maintenance, procurement, repair and provision of vehicles to Government ministries and departments, he said. It is not a secret that you are coming in at a time when industry and the country are facing economic challenges that have a bearing on the performance of the company. Expectations are high, tasks are many, so you need to set your priorities right. Eng Madanha said Prof Mpepereki should be guided by CMED s strategic plan that provides focus areas for taking action. He expressed confidence that Prof Mpepereki will be equal to the task as the new CMED boss. With his experience and proven track record in the various boards, Professor Mpepereki has what CMED needs to move to the next level, he said. I am confident that under his leadership, CMED is destined for a turnaround and profitability. In his acceptance speech, Prof Mpepereki said he was keen to transform agriculture through mechanisation. Under my guard as CMED chairman, we will do all we can to utilise the resources that we have to make sure all work is done in this organisation, he said.Prof Mpepereki is a senior lecturer at the University of Zimbabwe. He joined the institution s faculty of Agriculture as a staff development fellow in 1985 and proceeded to complete a Master of Science Degree majoring in Science and Microbiology at North Carolina State University, USA, in 1987. After completing his PhD at UZ in 1994, he launched the highly successful Soya-bean Promotion Programme 1996.He was promoted to senior lecturer in 1998, Associate Professor in 2000 and full Professor in 2002.