The September Fashion Issue team, &#8211; (Picture courtesy of Obyniq photography)Tafadzwa Zimoyo :Arts ReporterTwelve designers are scheduled to showcase their all-new exclusive collections at The September Fashion Issue show to be held tomorrow at Fife Avenue Shopping Centre. The panel of local designers includes award-winning Nompumelelo Marilyn Samambgwa of Noe eS, Tapfumanei Munenge, Danielle Allen of TIR House, Ishmael Tsakatsa of Zargue sia, Ngoni Motsi of Chenna Nenni, Mehreen Kamal of Reen Zara, Sarudzai Murungu, Natsai Mujuru of Gems of Dune, Lauryn Chisikwa of House of Lau, Kimberly Masimbe of House of KikiM, Saneliso Mpofu of Sanah Designs, and David Mnaba of The web.The September Fashion Issue runway will feature two international designers from South Africa, Bongane Shabangu of Indwandwe Couture and Nokwakha Qobo of Nokwakha, who will present their latest offerings for the Spring Summer 2017 season.They will be accompanied by models Candice Bonolo, Musty and a team from Afrikan Fashion TV.In an interview show communications and media liaison officer Beryl Kanyowa said all is set for the event. Rehearsals are underway and I am happy that everything is now in place for the show. This is something big for Zimbabweans considering that we are in the season of fashion strides. Local designers have taken the task upon themselves to produce the show with limited resources. In an effort to foster local fashion retail; delegates, merchandisers and influential celebrities have been invited to the affair, she said.She said as organisers, they are anticipating that sound business deals will come out of the event. This is only a runway fashion show and no exhibition is to take place. Those who will be interested in the garments on display can later contact the designers after the event. The event will start at 6pm until 10pm. Fashion bloggers and journalist are also invited so as to learn and share the experience, she said.Tapfumanei Munenge affectionately known as Coco, one of the designers organising the event, said fashion is not only entertainment but business as well. We mean business and we are playing our part in rebuilding the industry, one stitch at a time. I think Zimbabweans should take fashion industry serious as it can sustain livelihoods just like any profession, he said.Samambgwa, the event director, said: The unexpected is to be expected at the show and we promise to deliver nothing other than a complete fashion show buffet. There is a pre-cocktail party with tickets already selling at designated points.