Business ReporterAS climate change brings poor and erratic rainfalls, investments in irrigation schemes could help Zimbabwe overcome challenges related to unpredictable rainfall patterns. Already, the country has various irrigation schemes, some which need rehabilitation. The country also has various water bodies where new schemes can be established. According to Finance and Economic Development Minister Patrick Chinamasa, the devastating effects of climate change being faced by the country requires priority to be accorded to enhance climate resilience and mitigation programmes in all climate sensitive areas. This includes scaling up on irrigation development, construction of water reservoirs, adaptation of low carbon and climate resilient development pathways, breeding of drought tolerant crop varieties, strengthening of early warning systems, among others. The revival of irrigation facilities is essential to augment strategy to achieve better yields and attain food security, the Agriculture and Rural Development Authority chairman Mr Basil Nyabadza said, adding priority should be given to schemes which need minimum budgets.ARDA is partnering small to large scale farmers with potential irrigable land for purposes of utilizing the land that would, in the absence of irrigation, will remain unproductive. To date, 375 farmers with a potential irrigable hectarage of 41 000 hectares have tendered their farms for possible partnerships with the authority, with potential to produce 300 000 tonnes of maize, 320 000 tonnes of wheat and 30 000 tonnes of soya beans. With such schemes, will Zimbabwe need to spend millions of dollars to import maize, said one analyst.The Government and the private sector have already spent about $180 million on maize imports. Such resources should be directed towards enhancing irrigation, added the analyst.Minister Chinamasa said to build sustainability, the Government is considering introducing a levy on beneficiaries of irrigation schemes, which will be pooled into a fund to be used for maintenance of the facilities, in line with the Land Tenure Regulations. Zimbabwe National Farmers Union vice president Mr Garikai Msika said Zimbabwe was not sufficiently utilizing water for irrigation. It is not an insurmountable task, he said. It is something that should start running with maximum attention dedicated to the programme. With regards to funding, observers said there is need to come up with funding models, which would give farmers enough time to service their debts. Enhancing rainwater harvesting and building dams requires money and it is time for local banks to come up with funding mechanisms for farmers of all (farm) sizes, another analyst said.With irrigation, farmers can also diversify and can produce crops on rotational basis throughout the year. This will certainly improve production and incomes as farmers can produce different crops throughout the year, said Mr Ray Simoti, a vegetable farmer in Rusape.Apart from ARDA, programme, the Government has started working on reviving some irrigation facilities. Of the hectarage targeted under the Government s command agriculture, while 136 000 hectares of the targeted 400 000 ha is irrigable.With assistance from Japan, Government is undertaking development and irrigation works at Nyakomba Irrigation scheme at a total cost of $15 million. Commencement of works is expected before end of the year. The Government has also secured a grant of $25,5 million from IFAD under the Debt Sustainability Framework to fund rehabilitation of 4 000 hectares under the Smallholder Irrigation Revitalisation Programme in communal and old resettlement areas in Manicaland, Masvingo, Matabeleland South and Midlands Provinces at a cost of $53 million.An additional co-financing request from the OPEC Fund for International Development amounting to $20 million has been made and Fund has expressed interest. The EU is supporting rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, training of extension staff and farmers, as well as facilitation of market linkages for 20 smallholder irrigation projects in Beitbridge, Chipinge, Chimanimani, Gwanda, Matobo, Mangwe and Makoni districts. To date, $1,6 million had been disbursed, against a projection of $4,5 million in 2016. The Swiss Development Co-operation is funding the rehabilitation of 14 irrigation schemes in Bikita, Gutu, Masvingo and Zaka districts, targeting 657 hectares, said the minister.About $1 million was disbursed this year against a projection of $3,5 million for 2016.