Prophet Emmanuel MakandiwaBelow is an excerpt from a Question and Answer Session with Emmanuel MakandiwaQuestion. How do I improve my faith?Answer: Study the word of God. Because that s the way you can discover people who have received it before. You can develop the faith through the word of God. If you really desire to develop faith which has to do with peace, diligently go through the scriptures talking about peace. The same applies with barrenness you go to the scriptures talking about barrenness and how God dealt with it. Keep on studying the word of God. In addition, study the people who have received, how they received it. Search the scriptures and find out how your problem was solved in the Bible. As far as doubt is concerned it s something you ve to fight every day! It s always some few centimetres away. Remember Elijah after what he did on Mount Sinai, he then ran away from Jezebel afterwards. Doubt doesn t matter you ve done it before it will always come.But don t verbalise it, don t speak it, don t say it out, don t confess it. It s the best way to deal with it.Q. What kind of wisdom do you need to identify your divine helper, you have prophesied to people advising them that a helper is coming your way. How then after the prophecy, can you identify him and how exactly do you bring him or her to begin help you?A. That s one thing that gives me a lot of concern and it is my prayer every day that people will have that kind of wisdom you are talking about. That is my petition to God: How can this wisdom be available to people. A lot of people do not have it. They have the prayers but they do not have the wisdom. If I have to answer you fairly, I have to give you a harsh answer that will stick in your heart and mind. Identifying those people is not hard, they are also sent by God to look for you.What makes people lose helpers is probably because many of you are not aware of the kind of help that you are looking for, now. It s not documented, what is it really that you need?People that are in a position to help are experienced in helping others, they have experience. If a person is coming to you, you have to assume that you are not the first person to be helped by them. God leads you to somebody who is in a position to help.Personally, if somebody comes and needs help, normally I don t help him on the very first day. Paul in his letter to Timothy, says do not lay your hands on a man suddenly. There are certain blessings that should not be transferred immediately.I take my time so I realise the type if help you need.There are certain people who come seeking spiritual help but they have a tendency of asking for money. I have seen people coming to ask for money at church, yet in actual fact these people were supposed to serve God, sacrifice for the work of God in order to receive a blessing from God.I have seen people and I know if they are to sow a seed their finances can be transformed.They come to me thinking they want spiritual things. They get offended even after I bless them spiritually and give them nothing in the physical. That s why you should delay in helping. If you want to have a helper, please I beg you, Money should never be something that you should ask for. Every rich person knows, many people have gone to him after his money.If you come to me, I am already expecting you to behave the way others did. Every blessed person has a way to know what you want. Don t ask for money.Let s say you walk into a company and ask for a job. You didn t ask for money. There are thousands of people who have gone looking for a job. It s a polite way of asking for money. If you come to me asking for a job, it means you can t see it. You have to walk into my environment and discover your job. Prove to me that I have a serious need for you. Prove that my company will not prosper without you.Joseph created his position before Pharaoh. He said to the king look for a man that can do this and this. I have needs that I m aware of, needs that I m not aware of. Remember the days when you didn t have a phone, all of a sudden a phone is a need. Ten years ago it wasn t important. Now you feel like you cannot spend a day without it. Someone came with that invention and exposed your need. You needed that thing ever since.Someone discovered that you can t live without it and was willing to supply that need. I might tell you what to do, but in my teachings I am always talking about your place and what you can do in my life. So your helpers may come to seek your help, yet they have come to help you.I have told you this before, but understand. Let s say you are a maid. Depending with the environment and circumstances, ordinarily you get married first but God gives you the training through being a maid. You will have to be taught by your madam. You can burn food, not in your house, and burn shirts, yet it is practice before you get married and be expected to perform these duties to your husband. You then value your salary more? This is a marriage university, you are not there forever, you have come to get expertise. You should be returning all that salary once married, because few schools pay students. Helpers are everywhere.If you really know your job very well, there are certain people that you can just tell that I need transport money, I need to work. Money is everywhere. The people that you see now blessed, they have need for something that at your level, you can provide. Stop looking for money. Don t look for that which is not. Money is not.I might be having money in my pocket right now, until I get a person who deserves it.When a person leaves his house with $50, and returns with $10, it means they have found a place worth $40.People with money come close to you to test if you are the owner of their money. Find ways of pushing your small dreams into his bigger dream. Every rich person is looking for one faithful person, not qualified, not trained, but faithful people.There are times when I look for one person who gives me a detailed update after every 30 minutes. Everywhere I get information on demand, I have to ask for it. Just to tell me that Sir we are still at that spot, we haven t changed the tyre yet. Sir we have sent those emails, but no response. If there is nothing to report, that s a report. You can earn money, just by doing that. Are you available to help your helper. Identify his needs, you know at the back of your mind that this is the man God has sent.There s someone going somewhere, but has no directions, can you sacrifice just a day, to accompany him? You fear he might kill you, you will remain alive and yet broke.I drove into a certain farm around Harare. Inside, there were many gates, there were paddocks. I would stop and open each gate. I really wanted to get someone to bless since morning. There was a dam, and I saw boys fishing, I said I don t want to rush, lest there be a person worth the money that I had and I could bless him with the hard cash. I waited until I realised that no one is coming. I opened the gate, drove the car, got out, closed the gate.Up to this day, God has already remembered those guys. You are telling me you look at a car stopping and you can t see what s in front of the car?Every person coming to help you has a need.Apart from asking God who is my helper, who are you willing to help? As a teacher, there us a certain student, who comes from a royal family, why not have some extra time with that child.? More commitment, You are not asking for money. There is one child there who has been sent by God. That child s parents can change your life forever. As a nurse, why treat each patient as a patient? There are some made sick by God so that you can get an opportunity to interact with them.If you have the mentality that all the people are the same, that s why you are broke. Whether in the bible, or in the house of God. The Bible says do not rush to occupy high seats. You go to a function knowing that there are relatives, the ones who are wedding and the dead, if its a funeral.Your boss must get a certain level of reverence, not the same with everyone. He is paying you every month. He qualifies. Yes.