Ephesians 1 vs 15-17; Therefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saint, do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers: that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of Glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. Let s spare a thought today for our spiritual leaders, the norm is to request for those we feel are closer to our Lord and Saviour to pray for, minister and guide us. It is generally expected that they have all the answers and because of the double measure they may have received, they are immune to the troubles of the world.We are sometimes made to believe, or we tell ourselves that we must place people of the cloth on a pedestal and sometimes the net effect is that we end up worshipping them rather than the Father. We wrongly conclude that all the power of the Father is in the servant.Our lives revolve around every word that they speak, we cling with hope and expectation to every word. We believe they can do no wrong; we actually take them away from the human setting and see them as spirits incarnate.Throughout the Bible, the Lord has chosen men and women who are flawed and less than perfect to be His messengers. He refined them through the furnace of life and has produced more spiritually akin and mature individuals who can minister.What we sometimes forget is that these people who lead us are flesh and blood like us, they feel, they see, they smell and they endure. They are like you and I.The mission and the call that they have accepted is similar to that which has been cast on you. The difference is they have accepted it and they are living their lives trying to do what God has asked of all of us.We sometimes put unrealistic expectations on our spiritual leaders to a point where we sometimes lose faith on the basis of the human frailty that they sometimes show us. We expect them to be perfect and nothing short of that will do in our eyes.The truth, however, is that we have an obligation to pray for them and make the lives of our spiritual parents easier. We have to shower them with love and prayer because the forces at play in their lives are a lot more grievous than what we may endure.Be blessed.For more info: Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.org; e-mail us on: [email&#160;protected]; catch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours.