Sports Reporter HOW Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu says their victory over Dynamos in the first round of the Chibuku Super Cup tournament has given them confidence as they plot another giant killing act against Highlanders in the quarter-finals on Sunday. Kaindu s men emerged 5-4 winners against DeMbare at Rufaro two weeks ago following a penalty shoot-out.And as they brace for another big showdown with their superior neighbours, who appear to have struck a purple patch, the modest goldminers yesterday said they were bubbling with confidence.They eliminated Highlanders on a 4-3 penalty, after the match had ended 1-1, courtesy of goals from Heritein Masuku for How Mine and Obadiah Tarumbwa s equaliser. We eliminated Dynamos in the first round and that should give us confidence and self-belief ahead of this game. I know, with God on our side everything is possible, said Kaindu. So I am convinced that if we can stand our ground, reduce the errors and play like we did in the first round, we can still count our chances. It s not always easy playing big teams but I am sure the atmosphere will make it exciting. This will be third time How Mine and Highlanders are meeting in the Chibuku Super Cup.Highlanders were victorious on their first meeting in 2014 when Felix Chindungwe, Dumisani Ndlovu and Charles Sibanda ensured a 3-1 win in the quarter-finals.Kuda Musharu reduced the arrears for How Mine.Kaindu, a former Highlanders player and coach, will be up against his former paymasters who are chasing a possible league and cup double.How Mine will be praying that the duo of Toto Banda and Praise Tonha recover in time for the match.Highlanders were boosted with the news that their experienced goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda had recovered from an eye injury and could be available for selection. The club s secretary-general Emmett Ndlovu said they were happy with the draw. As it stands any team among the front runners can win the league. In football, it s easy to go to the top if you play well and also very easy to come. So we are going to give it our best and then see how it ends, said Ndlovu.Chibuku Super Cup quarter-finalfixtures:Tomorrow: ZPC Kariba v Harare City (Nyamhunga), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Tsholotsho (Baobab)Sunday: How Mine v Highlanders (Barbourfields), Triangle v FC Platinum (Gibbo)