Eddie Chikamhi Sports Reporter ZPC Kariba defender Thomas Sweswe has rallied his teammates to put in a strong shift against Harare City in the quarter-finals of the Chibuku Super Cup at Nyamhunga on Saturday as they seek to avenge for the losses they suffered at the hands of their opponents on three different occasions this year. Sweswe sounded the war cry yesterday after learning they had been paired with the side that has caused them so much misery this year.Harare City have beaten ZPC Kariba twice at Nyamhunga this year and once at Rufaro. Raphael Manuvire s brace and another goal by Kuda Kumwala earned the Sunshine Boys a convincing 3-0 win at Nyamhunga in the pre-season ZNA Charities Shield semi-final.Harare City then went on to win both legs of their Castle Lager Premiership meetings. Now former Warriors defender Sweswe believes it is their turn. Sweswe yesterday declared that his side cannot afford to lose four times to Harare City this year and are looking to get their revenge. I think everyone is ready. We all know what is at stake, we have lost to Harare City thrice this year and we cannot make it four. So everyone is working very hard ahead of that match. The community here, everyone, is talking about revenge. Besides it s an opportunity for us, in fact our only hope, to at least win silverware this year and play in Africa, seeing that we are out of the title race. But cup games are always unpredictable. I have read somewhere Harare City saying they are comfortable and that they feel at home playing at Nyamhunga. So it means they will come prepared for this match. We will need to be on our guard and play according to the coaches instruction. There is no need to put ourselves under pressure anyway, said Sweswe.Triangle also indicated they have some unfinished business with log leaders FC Platinum after the sides were paired for a clash at Gibbo on Sunday. The platinum miners have won both contests when the teams clashed in the Premiership.However, FC Platinum remained cautious although they are strongly positioned for a league and cup double following a stellar season under Norman Mapeza. The draw for the $500 000 tournament was conducted in Gweru on Tuesday afternoon.There are exciting fixtures which will also see giants Highlanders tackle bogey side How Mine while newboys Ngezi Platinum host Tsholotsho. Despite having to play away, FC Platinum are among favourites to land the cup this season after gathering so much momentum in the league marathon.But their spokesperson Chido Chizondo was cautious arguing that cup games are always unpredictable. I think this is a fair draw and we can only hope for the best. What we are going to do as FC Platinum is give our 100 percent. Triangle have always given us a good run for our money, said Chizondo.Chibuku Super Cup quarter-final fixturesSaturday: ZPC Kariba v Harare City (Nyamhunga), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Tsholotsho (Baobab)Sunday: How Mine v Highlanders (Barbourfields), Triangle v FC Platinum (Gibbo)