John 11 vs 25 26 Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in Me, though he may die, he shall live. And whoever lives and believes in Me shall never die. Do you believe this? A friend told me the story of Lazarus a few days ago, the context in which the story was shared brought some insight into some of the things that we sometimes experience or endure. Some experiences can sometimes leave us confused and somewhat dumbfounded and wondering how things turned out the way they did.The Bible says that Lazarus, Mary and Martha were three siblings who were friends to Jesus Christ, the son of God. They enjoyed a close and warm fellowship, and they could confidently count themselves as part of his inner circle of close companions. They enjoyed freedoms that the average person did not and therefore when Lazarus fell ill they sent word that Lord the one you love is sick. The words used showed intimacy or at least a relationship that was above average.When Jesus got word of the condition of his friend he sent back a message to say, This will not end in death. No, it is for God s glory so that God s son may be glorified through it. The story goes that Jesus stayed two more days in the place he was and went on to tell his disciples that Lazarus had fallen asleep and he was going to wake him up. The disciples thought he meant that he had naturally fallen asleep, so to make them understand he plainly said to them, Lazarus is dead, and for your sake I am glad I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. The story goes that by the time Jesus arrived, Lazarus had been dead for four days, When Martha saw Jesus she was quick to say, Jesus if you had been here, my brother would not have died, but I know that even now God will give you whatever you ask. Jesus went on to call Lazarus from his tomb and despite the number of days he had been dead, Lazarus came out alive and walked out of the tomb. It s interesting that the story can best describe the situations we find ourselves in, hopeless and at a point where everything seems lost.You may be experiencing circumstances that appear hopeless, the truth is that wherever you may be, it s never too late for God to rescue you, nothing is beyond His reach.Be blessed!For more Info:Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.orgEmail us on [email&#160;protected]Catch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours&nbsp;