LONDON. A contrite Sam Allardyce claimed entrapment has won after facing the media for the first time since stepping down as England soccer manager.Allardyce left his role as England boss on Tuesday evening after agreeing with the FA that comments he made to undercover Daily Telegraph reporters had left his position untenable . An emotional and apologetic Allardyce said yesterday an error of judgment had led to his shock exit as England manager following a newspaper sting.The 61-year-old was compelled to leave on Tuesday for seeking a lucrative sideline role while talking to undercover reporters from Britain s Daily Telegraph.The paper said it had hundreds of pages of transcripts from the meeting in which Allardyce was negotiating a deal worth 400 000 pounds to represent a Far East firm seeking advice on the transfer market.The 61-year-old was appointed to his dream job only 67 days ago and departs by mutual agreement with just one match on his record, this month s World Cup qualifying win in Slovakia.In addition to discussing how to circumvent rules regarding player transfers, video footage also appeared to show Allardyce mocking predecessor Roy Hodgson, calling Prince Harry a very naughty boy and accusing the FA of being all about making money .The Telegraph also revealed that Allardyce negotiated in principle a deal to travel to the Far East as a paid ambassador for the fictitious businessmen.Speaking to Sky Sports News yesterday morning however, Allardyce, denied money was his primary motivating factor in attending the now-infamous meeting, instead insisting he did so as a favour to an old friend who was down on his luck.The meeting was arranged by football agent Scott McGarvey, whom Allardyce has known for 20 or 30 years and he was trying to help him out .Allardyce told the media assembled outside his Bolton home: Obviously I have to do this before I go away. On reflection it was a silly thing to do. I was trying to help someone out I knew for 30 years and unfortunately it was an error in judgement on my behalf. Entrapment has won on this occasion. Allardyce said it had been a silly thing to do but he had been trying to help out someone he had known for 30 years. Unfortunately it was an error in judgment on my behalf. I have paid the consequences, a clearly emotional Allardyce told reporters outside his home in northern England. Entrapment has won on this occasion and I have to accept that. I ve apologised to (the Football Association) and all concerned. Earlier he issued a statement in which he offered a wholehearted apology to the Football Association (FA) for embarrassing the governing body. It was a great honour for me to be appointed back in July and I am deeply disappointed at this outcome, Allardyce, who replaced Roy Hodgson after England s dismal Euro 2016 campaign.The former centre half who built his managerial reputation by getting the best out of unfashionable or struggling clubs met FA chairman Greg Clarke and chief executive Martin Glenn and offered a sincere and wholehearted apology for his actions. Although it was made clear during the recorded conversations that any proposed arrangements would need the FA s full approval, I recognise I made some comments which have caused embarrassment, he said in his statement. . . . I was asked to clarify what I said and the context in which the conversations took place. I have co-operated fully in this regard. I also regret my comments with regard to other individuals, he added.Allardyce won his only game in charge of England, a World Cup qualifier in Slovakia earlier this month, by 1-0.He will be replaced by under-21 coach Gareth Southgate for the next four matches as the FA searches for a successor.He told reporters yesterday he could say no more about the sacking as he had a confidentiality agreement with the FA and was going abroad. I m going to go away and reflect on it. I d like to wish all the England lads, Gareth, and the staff all the very best, he said.When asked if this was his last soccer job, he replied: Who knows. We ll wait and see. Allardyce admitted he is extremely down following his exit and said he now plans to leave the UK this morning for a break to reflect on what has happened.He revealed he has apologised to the FA for the embarrassment the incident has caused and wished caretaker manager Gareth Southgate who will manage England for the next four games the best of luck moving forward. The agreement was done very amicably, I apologised to the FA and to all concerned for the unfortunate situation that I put myself in, Allardyce said. I have confidentiality agreement lads, I can t answer any more questions just now. I m going on holiday to reflect. I would like to wish Gareth and all the rest of the England lads the very best. Allardyce also confirmed to Sky Sports News he has no intention of quitting football and hopes to get back into management quickly. Sky Sports.