Hazvineyi ChiotaTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter University of South Africa law student Hazvineyi Chiota stole the show at Black Opal Face of Zimbabwe pageant when she was crowned 2016 queen.The pageant ran under the theme Define Your Beauty , with judges such as fashion guru and lifestyle coach Nomathemba Ndebele, social media analyst Thomas Chizhanje, ZBC news anchor Rumbidzai Takawira, multi- award winning gospel singer Mudiwahood and BOFOZ 2014 finalist Sandra Gonah taking care of adjudication.A first timer, Chiota, who is also in her second year at Southern African Association Accountants (SAAA) study-ing accounting, beat other 10 finalists last Saturday at the Glamis Arena.The 30-year-old had a total of 873 points while first princess went to Mazvita Chakawa with 744.Robin Chivanga was voted second princess with 684 points.Chiota walked away with $8 000 prize money apart from other consolation prizes.In an interview with The Herald Arts Section, the newly-crowned queen said was this was the beginning of a new chapter I am so honoured at the same time humbled. It was a tough competition for me, considering there we other young, intelligent and beautiful ladies. This is the best part of me, so far as I am now finding myself through my new career. Modelling wasn t my passion. I hope now I have to advance and take it further. I entered the competition because my goal was centred on motivation, she said.The mother of two daughters said she still haven t decided what she will do with the prize money. For now I am in still in shock. I haven t thought about what I will do the money. Probably I will invest in business then the other on my family. I am married to Royland Rukande and I thank him for the great support he gave me although at first he was a bit sceptical. I also want to thank God for this opportunity. I am a Christian and I go to the Methodist Church in Zimbabwe, she said.Chiota, who was also the crowd favourite, managed to sail through during the question and answer segment flawlessly.Asked, what constitute true beauty, she said: True beauty comes from within, but no one is going to know it you have it if they haven t spoken to you on the first expression. That is why you need to show it externally through interaction brand such as Black Opal cosmetics .Her confidence did not only win hearts of many but the judges too.International guest Dheshan Naidv, who is sales and marketing director for Black Opal from United States, said he was happy with how the event went on. Zimbabwe is a friendly country. I am impressed with what has been displayed here. We are going through a process of branding and I want to thank everyone who is using the products. The models look beautiful and I am amazed that all age groups are catered for. Make-up is a necessity for everyone, he said.The pageant attracted women of all ages, different size and shapes.Award-winning comedian Doc Vikela and Star FM radio personality Coco were masters of ceremony and were dressed by Chic Street.Although there were some mishaps, here and there such as a power cut which disrupted the event for about 20 minutes, the show was well choreographed and managed.Gospel diva Fungisai Zvakavapano- Mashavave proved that she is still a force to reckon with despite all the mocking she gets on social media as she performed some of her hit songs which include Amai Ndakanaka and Vanondibatirana .The musician put up a scintillating performance.Sexy dancer and singer Ammara Brown also stole the limelight with her hit songs like Mukoko which she performed alone, while the new song What You Want featuring Chengeta Brown managed to get everyone on their feet.The pageant lasted about two hours.&nbsp;