HUSBAND AND WIFE AFFAIR . . . Oliver Mtukudzi and wife Daisy serenade guests with one of their duets at the launch of Eheka! Nhai Yahwe at Pakare Paye Arts Centre last weekArts Reporter Superstar Oliver Mtukudzi will on Saturday have time to get close to his fans at a show at Borrowdale Country Manor.The musician will arrive at the venue around 7pm and will have three hours of interacting with his fans before he goes on stage. Other musicians that will share the stage with Mtukudzi are Jah Prayzah, Sam Dondo and Tariro NeGitare.Show organiser Thompson Dondo of D&amp;G Events said they had structured the programme to give people in the VVIP section some time to interact with the superstar. For three hours he will be available to mix and mingle with his fans. Those in the arena closest to the stage will have time to interact with the musician. He will have fun with them as they watch other musicians in action. This is a spectacular show where the VVIP section will come with benefits of free drinks, food and a time with Mtukudzi. We emphasise that this will be a show for executives that are only used to seeing the musician in action at their corporate functions, said Dondo.Old pals . . . Oliver Mtukudzi (right) with South African stars Hugh Masekela and Steve Dyer, who also feature prominently on Mtukudzi s latest albumHe said they are preparing a set-up that is conducive for corporate and family entertainment. The venue will be demarcated into various sections that will present a memorable outing experience for everyone from top executives to ordinary music followers that enjoy entertainment in a plush setting. Tuku s album title calls for people to enjoy and the release mixes old and new tracks. It is an album that fuses songs for various moods, but the emphasis is on merrymaking.Dondo said taking the album launch to Borrowdale Country Manor was a way of welcoming Tuku s album in an exquisite way. This is not an ordinary launch. Yes, Mudhara Tuku has done other upmarket gigs, but this show will surpass all of them because we want to make a strong statement about his brand. This is a musician who has represented the country at various stages across the world and he has worked with most of the big companies in the country. Tuku s image is juxtaposed with big corporate images because he is a big brand. We want to honour that big brand with a classy affair where chief executives can come and enjoy his music away from the mass market. It is a show for the top names in the corporate world that do not prefer attending mass shows. It is a special concert. Although we will also have general music followers that want to experience such ambiance, we are giving this opportunity to the executives that only see Tuku at their corporate functions. This show is a chance for them to go for a night out and still feel as if they are at a corporate function. The difference is that at this show they will dance and make merry without any formalities or protocol because Tuku is saying enjoy my dear friend . 