Takudzwa Chitsiga:Sports ReporterA REFEREE was savagely attacked by a player during a Southern Region Division One match at the weekend. The vicious attack was caught on camera and has gone viral on social media while the international media is also feasting on it. Drama started when the referee flashed a red card to a player and all hell broke loose with the match official being attacked by one of the players in what resembled a boxing match. The referee later retaliated and pandemonium ensured. The player who attacked the referee is registered by Amagagasi, a Division One side in the Southern Region.Southern administrator Augustine Ndlovu said they were still looking into the issue and will make a statement today. We are still to receive all the details and by tomorrow (today) everything will be in place. We need to look into all the details and only the referee and fourth officials reports are here so tomorrow we will have something to say. There were also problems during a Northern Region Division One game with a referee being attacked when Mushowani Stars hosted Herentals.Northern Region boss Willard Manyengavana said they were waiting for the police report as the matter was reported to the police. We need to act fast and this issue should be resolved before the next fixture as it may inconvenience other teams. Remember Herentals are in the championship race so delaying the ruling will not be fair on their part or on their rivals. We will collect the police report tomorrow (today) and leave everything to the disciplinary committee, said Manyengavana.The match was abandoned after 20 minutes. Only last week the match between Yadah Stars and Tenax was abandoned at Sakubva after the referee awarded a last-gasp penalty to the visitors.The hosts stormed off the pitch in protest.Southern Region ResultsBulawayo Chiefs 1, Casmyn 0; Talen Vision 2, ZRP Hwange 0; Indlovu Iyanyathela 0, ZRP Byo Province 1; Hwange U-20 1, Bantu Rovers 5; Bosso 90 3, ZPC Hwange 0; Technosphere 0, Makomo 0; Ntabazinduna 1, Blackboots 1.Northern Region ResultsDStv Rangers 0, Golden Valley 0; Flame Lily 0, Shamva 0; Craneborne Bullets 0, Commando Bullets 1; Kariba waves 1, Karoi United 0; Chegutu Pirates 0, Banket United 1; ZRP Morris 1, Darwin United 0; Gunners 2, ZRP FC 1.Mushowani Stars v Herentals (Abandoned)Central Region ResultsIvan Hoe Mine 3, Chrome Stars 0; Tongogara 0, Vumbachikwe0; ZRP Beitbridge 3, Gweru United 0; ZRP Gwanda 0, Blanket Mine 1; Whawha 3, Jessie Mine 0; FC Platinum U-19 2, Kwekwe Sables 0, Shabanie Mine1, MSU 1; Nichrut 2, ZPC Munyati 2.Eastern Region ResultsFC Mutoko 1, Surrey 0; Masvingo City 2, Tenax 1; Renco Mine 1, Prime Rangers 1; Mwenezana 2, Africa Trust 1; Melfort 2, Mpandawana 1; Gutu 1, Buffaloes; Yadah 3, Black Eagles 1.