Chief Court Reporter A Harare lawyer, Emmanuel Samundombe, who was jailed for an effective three years for bashing his pregnant girlfriend has been granting bail pending appeal. Samudombe was sent to jail after he was convicted of assaulting his pregnant live-in girlfriend resulting in a miscarriage. The lawyer accused his wife, Zvikomborero Choto, of interfering with his mistress .This followed a heated argument in which the lawyer accused his girlfriend of divulging classified information to his other girlfriend that he had four children with different women.Through his lawyer, Advocate Sylvester Hashiti assisted by Adv Garikayi Sithole, Samudombe on Tuesday successfully applied for bail pending appeal arguing that there were prospects of success on appeal. Justice Happias Zhou granted Samudombe $300 bail pending appeal against sentence.Samundombe, who was being charged for contravening the Domestic Violence Act, pleaded guilty to the charge but challenged the medical report that stated that the miscarriage was as a result of the assault. He questioned the authenticity of the report adding that Choto had tried to extort him for her to withdraw the charges.Magistrate Ms Bianca Makwande sentenced Samundombe to 48 months behind bars but suspended 10 months on condition of good behaviour. She then effected 38 months. In her reasons for sentencing, Ms Makwande said Samundombe, as a legal practitioner who is aware of the law, deserved incarceration.Ms Makwande added that a life was lost and Samundombe should not be treated like a layperson. On June 11, Choto asked Samundombe when he was going to pay for damages to her family since she was pregnant and a misunderstanding arose.Samundombe suddenly turned violent and questioned Choto why she had told his mistress that he had four kids with different women.He removed blankets from the bed where Choto was sleeping. He went out and locked the door from outside while Choto remained inside.Samundombe later came back and unlocked the door before punching and clapping Choto. He pushed her to the ground.