Charles ManyuchiSports Reporter ORIENTAL Quarries Boxing Promotions manager Chris Malunga says they want to leave a mark when they stage Charles Manyuchi s World Boxing Council welterweight silver title defence next month at the Harare International Conference Centre. Malunga, who indicated he will be moving his base to Harare to oversee the preparations for the fight, said they were not leaving anything to chance. I came back on Sunday and I have been up and down with the Ministry of Sport, the Boxing Control Board, he said. And right now I am at the venue trying to have a meeting with the technical guys working on the PA system and the broadcaster because the match will be broadcast live. We need to discuss some technical issues concerning the same bout. It s not easy to put a boxing promotion of such nature. We have built our name over the years and we wouldn t want our name to be destroyed because of small issues. We need to be professional and to be in charge of everything. We are doing it for the first time in Zimbabwe. It s better we leave a mark here for others to follow. It s not like we are just promoting this fight and go away. I can assure the Zimbabwean people that Oriental Quarries will keep on promoting boxing in Zimbabwe, even amateur boxing, to uplift the sport. If we do so that means we are creating competition in the region. Secondly we are taking young girls and boys out of the streets to take sport seriously. We shouldn t look at the boundaries as borders, we are all one and the same. There have been indications Manyuchi will no longer face Frenchman Damien Martin for his voluntary title defence fight on October 14, instead he will take on Colombia s Jose Agustin Julio Feria.However, Malunga could not confirm the development. If there are any changes we will tell you, we will give you the information as it comes. We need to get certain documentation. There are certain procedures that have to be followed. If anything comes up I don t think it s in our interest to hide it. Our interest is about a boxer fighting in his home country, said Malunga.