The First Lady Amai Dr Grace MugabeInnocent Ruwende Senior Reporter First Lady Dr Grace Mugabe came to the rescue of one of the poorest schools in Chivi District, Dzingirayi Primary School, after donating uniforms and other goods that will also be distributed to other schools in the district. zanu-pf Masvingo provincial secretary for finance and Chivi Rural District Council chair Cde Killer Zivhu, who received the goods from her office, thanked the First Lady for always helping the poor, urging other politicians to follow suit. The school is one of the poorest in this area, if not the whole country. There is only one block which is properly built while the others are made from thatch and logs. The children have no desks or chairs hence they sit on the floor. They use drums as chalkboards and the school cannot afford to buy textbooks. The situation is terrible and if one is to visit the school, they would shed tears. I have been having sleepless nights thinking about the school and I approached the Office of the First Lady and they were able to give us some help, he said.Cde Zivhu said he had also gathered some goods for the school, but said it was not enough as the school required proper learning facilities as all the pupils gather in one block during the rainy season.He said he was sending a begging bowl to various corporates and politicians saying the 1 000 uniforms and goods donated by the First Lady will go a long way since the pupils were coming to school half naked. I am pleading with all Zimbabweans to assist the school. Let us put our hands together. There are children out there who are suffering. Some people cannot understand the impact of sanctions because they live in towns and are able to make a living. There are families out there who boil water in the evening for the children to survive. I urge politicians to concentrate on building the nation and service delivery rather than dwelling on politicking and character assassination. That is politics of the past. We need to mature in politics and ensure we provide for our people, he said.The First Lady also donated tracksuits to the district which will be distributed at the First Lady Sports Tournament to be held in Chivi on Saturday.