LONDON. Transfer deadline day is a maddening mess and only serves to fill the pockets of people with no discernible skills, like agents and football bloggers. This much is beyond question. But it s also important and, in its own sugary way, rather compelling a 23-hour festival of myth, misdirection and missteps with the power to suck in even the most cynical football fans. The summer 2016 edition did not quite pack the punch of editions past, but there were still some noteworthy deals: David Luiz made a triumphant and surprising return to Chelsea; Moussa Sissoko was lured by Daniel Levy s siren call at Tottenham Hotspur; Jack Wilshere sealed a move to Bournemouth s medical room.Now, as the dust settles on the transfer window, it falls on the lowly list-compilers of this world to impose a little order on matters. Which English Premiership clubs did the best business this summer? Which ended up frustrated? And which signed a load of complete duds?20. HULLMajor ins: David Marshall, Ryan Mason, Will Keane, Dieumerci Mbokani, Markus HenriksenMajor outs: Sone Aluko, Ryan Taylor, Mohamed Diame.It was a torrid summer for the Tigers, with Steve Bruce leaving and Mike Phelan starting the season with at the most recent count four senior players. (May need to double-check that.) Mo Diame left the club and only a late flurry put a tiny bit of gloss on matters. Ryan Mason and Will Keane both have something to prove and could work out well, but Dieumerci Mbokani didn t exactly set the world alight at Norwich and Hull will still feel they should have done much more.19. SWANSEAMajor ins: Leroy Fer, Mike van der Hoorn, Fernando Llorente, Borja Baston, Alfie MawsonMajor outs: Eder, Alberto Paloschi, Kyle Bartley, Bafetimbi Gomis, Andre Ayew, Ashley Williams, Franck Tabanou, Marvin EmnesIt wasn t a great window for the Swans. Ashley Williams will be a major loss, both in terms of defensive stability and leadership. Andre Ayew was one of the few attackers who shone at the Liberty last season. Eder and Bafetimbi Gomis&#8230; well, yeah, fair enough.But the incoming players, Leroy Fer aside, look like gambles. Fernando Llorente is a massive talent but has had an iffy few years, while Borja Baston has only had one (admittedly explosive) season at the top level in Spain. At 15million, it s a big risk.18. EVERTONMajor ins: Maarten Stekelenburg, Idrissa Gana Gueye, Ashley Williams, Yannick Bolasie, Enner Valencia Major outs: Steven Pienaar, Leon Osman, Tony Hibbert, Tim Howard, John Stones, Brendan GallowayThe good: Maarten Stekelenburg is a solid goalkeeper and Idrissa Gana Gueye has the energy to make a major contribution in midfield. Ashley Williams will also improve things at the back, albeit only for a couple years, given he is 32.The bad: 25million for Yannick Bolasie is madness and the Toffees were left fuming on deadline day when Moussa Sissoko snubbed their advances in favour of a move to Spurs. Given they had already missed out on Lucas Perez, Manolo Gabbiadini and Yacine Brahimi, settling for Enner Valencia wasn t a great look.17. BURNLEYMajor ins: Johann Berg Gudmundsson, Jon Flanagan, Steven Defour, Patrick Bamford, Jeff HendrickMajor outs: Joey Barton, Michael Duff, Matt Taylor, David Jones, Matt Gilks, Lukasz JutkiewiczThe Clarets adopted a cautious approach, judging that the players who got them up probably have a better chance of keeping them in the Premier League than would a raft of big-money additions.Jon Flanagan and Patrick Bamford are low-risk loans with something to prove, while Jeff Hendrick and Steven Defour raise the quality level in midfield. But they could still be a forward and a defender short.16. WATFORDMajor ins: Jerome Sinclair, Christian Kabasele, Isaac Success, Juan Camilo Zuniga, Brice Dja Djedje, Younes Kaboul, Roberto Pereyra, Daryl Janmaat, Stefano Okaka, Adrian Mariappa, KenedyMajor outs: Jose Manuel Jurado, Almen Abdi, Steven Berghuis, Mario Suarez, Matej Vydra, Allan NyomBloody hell, Watford! You do realise you don t have to start again with a new squad every summer, right? There are some good additions in there: Younes Kaboul and Isaac Success provide depth in key areas, while Kenedy and Roberto Pereyra will do well if they settle. But it s all a bit scattergun and leaves the squad looking fairly bloated as the season gets underway.Oh, and are the players coming in to replace Almen Abdi, Mario Suarez and Allan Nyom really huge upgrades? Probably not.15. SUNDERLANDMajor ins: Papy Djilobodji, Paddy McNair, Donald Love, Adnan Januzaj, Javier Manquillo, Steven Pienaar, Didier Ndong, Jason DenayerMajor outs: Danny Graham, Steven Fletcher, Wes Brown, Emanuele Giaccherini, Santiago Vergini, Will Buckley, Liam Bridcutt, Jordi Gomez, Younes Kaboul, Jeremain LensDavid Moyes certainly won t die wondering. In have come a number of players, most of them cast-offs from other Premier League clubs. Some Adnan Januzaj, Paddy McNair, Steven Pienaar should have something to offer if they produce their best form. Others, like Donald Love and Papy Djilobodji, look less convincing. The outgoings column makes better reading: Emanuele Giaccherini and Younes Kaboul will be missed, but the Black Cats have binned plenty of odds and sods who probably weren t going to contribute much in the relegation battle that beckons.But the failure to buy a striker could be costly; if Jermain Defoe gets injured, Sunderland are in trouble.14. ARSENALMajor ins: Granit Xhaka, Takuma Asano, Rob Holding, Lucas Perez, Shkodran MustafiMajor outs: Mikel Arteta, Tomas Rosicky, Mathieu Flamini, Calum Chambers, Joel Campbell, Wojciech Szczesny, Serge Gnabry, Jack WilshereThe doom merchants will have you believe that Arsene Wenger has messed it all up again, and he s certainly not making things easy for himself. There s still no 30-goal-a-season striker on the books, for a start, while the decision to let Jack Wilshere leave on loan won t be to everyone s taste. The players they have signed should all be useful. Lucas Perez is a wildcard attacking option, Rob Holding is clearly a talent and Granit Xhaka could be the fulcrum of their midfield for years. Shkodran Mustafi is also a reasonable addition, albeit one that sums up Arsenal s muddled approach. Even when Gabriel and Per Mertesacker got injured, Wenger felt he didn t need another senior option, only to be peer-pressured into moving for the German. Now, when everyone is fit, Arsenal have more centre-backs than he can possibly keep happy&#8230; which, presumably, was the reason for his reticence in the first place.13. WEST BROMMajor ins: Matt Phillips, Brendan Galloway, Nacer Chadli, Allan Nyom, Hal Robson-KanuMajor outs: Victor Anichebe, Stephane Sessegnon, Anders Lindegaard, James Chester, Cristian Gamboa, Sebastien Pocognoli, Rickie LambertIn Matt Phillips, Nacer Chadli and Hal Robson-Kanu, Tony Pulis has secured some promising attacking talent: Chadli will be looking to show he can cut it after fading at Spurs, while Robson-Kanu will be aiming to maintain the form he showed for Wales during the summer. Pulis has also signed two full-backs, presumably just to have some new faces to overlook in favour of the six centre-backs he usually picks every week. Will any of the departing players be missed? Probably not a great deal, although Stephane Sessegnon can probably feel a bit aggrieved, having completely submitted himself to the demands of Pulisball over the last couple of seasons, only to be binned.12. SOUTHAMPTONMajor ins: Nathan Redmond, Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg, Alex McCarthy, Jeremy Pied, Sofiane BoufalMajor outs: Gaston Ramirez, Kelvin Davis, Juanmi, Victor Wanyama, Sadio Mane, Graziano Pelle, Paulo Gazzaniga, Sam GallagherAs usual, the Saints lost key men: Sadio Mane joined the Liverpool exodus and Graziano Pelle was wooed by the cash of China. The players replacing them ostensibly Nathan Redmond and Sofiane Boufal certainly have the pace and technical ability to take up some of the shortfall, but if the first few weeks of the season are anything to go by, the more physical threat of Pelle will be a big loss.More positive is the addition of Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg. A former protege of Pep Guardiola at Bayern Munich, the Dane could become a key man for Southampton and a portential bargain at 12million.11. CHELSEAMajor ins: Michy Batshuayi, N Golo Kante, Eduardo, Marcos Alonso, David LuizMajor outs: Nathan Ake, Tomas Kalas, Mohamed Salah, Bertrand Traore, Danilo Pantic, Partrick Bamford, Loic Remy, Kenedy, Juan Cuadrado, Lucas Piazon, Christian AtsuVery hit and miss. Michy Batshuayi and N Golo Kante are excellent additions who solved long-standing issues: the former provides proper competition up front, while Kante will do the dirty work that no one else seemed capable of doing last term. But Chelsea s hunt for top-drawer defenders rumbled on until deadline day, with the likes of Leonardo Bonucci proving impossible to lure. In the end, they stumped up a significant chunk of money for Marcos Alonso (an improved player but hardly a world-beater) and brought back David Luiz in what must go down as the most surprising deal of the summer.10. TOTTENHAM HOTSPURMajor ins: Victor Wanyama, Vincent Janssen, Georges-Kevin Nkoudou, Pau Lopez, Moussa SissokoMajor outs: Federico Fazio, Alex Pritchard, DeAndre Yedlin, Nabil Bentaleb, Nacer Chadli, Ryan Mason, Clinton NjieMauricio Pochettino does not take any prisoners and dumped a number of players who were unlikely to feature much this season, including youngsters who never quite kicked on (Ryan Mason, Nabil Bentaleb, Alex Pritchard) and a couple of costly mistakes (Federico Fazio, Clinton Njie).There are slight question marks over Vincent Janssen s ability to cut it in the Premier League, while Georges-Kevin Nkoudou is likely to be a back-up option. But Victor Wanyama is an excellent addition and the deadline day move for Moussa Sissoko adds yet more variety in midfield.Not spectacular, but continuity is key.9. WEST HAMMajor ins: Havard Nordtveit, Domingos Quina, Sofiane Feghouli, Gokhan Tore, Ashley Fletcher, Arthur Masuaku, Andre Ayew, Jonathan Calleri, Simone Zaza, Alvaro ArbeloaMajor outs: Joey O Brien, James Tomkins, Enner ValenciaThe current injury crisis isn t helping morale in east London, but when it clears, Slaven Bilic will have a very strong squad at his disposal. Andre Ayew and Sofiane Feghouli are proven internationals; Gokhan Tore, Arthur Masuaku and Havard Nordtveit add depth; Simone Zaza and Jonathan Calleri were wanted by a host of other sides and bring variety to the attack.Alvaro Arbeloa is the kind of quirky deadline-day deal neutrals love, but really West Ham s biggest coup was keeping hold of Dimitri Payet after his Euro 2016 fireworks.8. MIDDLESBROUGHMajor ins: Viktor Fischer, Marten De Roon, Victor Valdes, Antonio Barragan, Alvaro Negredo, Gaston Ramirez, Brad Guzan, Fabio Da Silva, Calum Chambers, Adama TraoreMajor outs: Jonathan Woodgate, Rhys Williams, Mustapha Carayol, Albert AdomahTaking the opposite approach to Burnley, Boro went after a raft of players with top-level experience. Victor Valdes could be a canny addition in goal and Brad Guzan is a decent back-up option, while Alvaro Negredo could be an inspired signing if he carries on as he s started.It s unclear how much game time Calum Chambers and Fabio da Silva will see, but both add depth at the back. Adama Traore is the kind of late gamble that could go either way, but all in all it has been a positive summer.7. LIVERPOOLMajor ins: Joel Matip, Loris Karius, Sadio Mane, Ragnar Klavan, Alex Manninger, Georginio WijnaldumMajor outs: Jerome Sinclair, Kolo Toure, Jordan Rossiter, Jose Enrique, Martin Skrtel, Jordon Ibe, Adam Bogdan, Joe Allen, Brad Smith, Jon Flanagan, Christian Benteke, Luis Alberto, Mario Balotelli, Lazar MarkovicSadio Mane and Georginio Wijnaldum are excellent additions who already look like key players in Jurgen Klopp s system. Joel Matip and Loris Karius should also be good, provided they settle.Meanwhile, a lot of players have been shifted, including Christian Benteke, Mario Balotelli, Kolo Toure and other lesser lights. We can only assume this is to pave the way for the next stage of the Klopp revolution, so perhaps there will be more outlandish spending next summer.6. CRYSTAL PALACEMajor ins: Andros Townsend, Steve Mandanda, James Tomkins, Christian Benteke, Loic RemyMajor outs: Emmanuel Adebayor, Marouane Chamakh, Brede Hangeland, Adrian Mariappa, Dwight Gayle, Alex McCarthy, Yannick Bolasie, Mile Jedinak, Jonny WilliamsThey needed a striker. They got Christian Benteke AND Loic Remy. They needed a defender. They got James Tomkins. They signed an international goalkeeper in Steve Mandanda. They signed Andros Townsend and cashed in on Yannick Bolasie. They kept hold of Wilfried Zaha and moved on a few squad players.A job well done, even if Mile Jedinak s departure tugged at the heartstrings and the odd fan would have liked a bit of drama on deadline day.5. STOKE CITYMajor ins: Ramadan Sobhi, Joe Allen, Wilfried Bony, Bruno Martins IndiMajor outs: Peter Odemwingie, Steve Sidwell, Marc Wilson, Philipp Wollscheid, JoseluA proven Premier League goalscorer? Tick. A midfielder fresh from a fine Euro 2016? Tick. A dominant defender with a point to prove? Tick. Some bit-part players hacked off the wage bill? House!4. LEICESTER CITYMajor ins: Ron-Robert Zieler, Luis Hernandez, Nampalys Mendy, Ahmed Musa, Bartosz Kapustka, Islam SlimaniMajor outs: Andrej Kramaric, Mark Schwarzer, Paul Konchesky, Dean Hammond, Liam Moore, N Golo Kante, Ritchie De Laet, Gokhan InlerMost of the incoming players look like calculated gambles: Luis Hernandez, Nampalys Mendy and Bartosz Kapustka didn t cost too much and could work out very nicely; Ahmed Musa has pace to burn but is a bit skitty; Islam Slimani has a superb goal record but it remains to be seen how he will fit Claudio Ranieri s system.But the Foxes kept hold of Jamie Vardy and Riyad Mahrez, which had seemed unlikely in the extreme when the summer began. So major credit on that front, even if they were unable to cling onto the third of their star men from last term, N Golo Kante.3. BOURNEMOUTHMajor ins: Nathan Ake, Lys Mousset, Lewis Cook, Jordon Ibe, Brad Smith, Marc Wilson, Jack WilshereMajor outs: Sylvain Distin, Tommy Elphick, Matt Ritchie, Glenn Murray, Lee Tomlin, Eunan O KaneThe sale of Matt Ritchie to Newcastle was a weird way to start the summer, but the Cherries bounced back in fine style.Nathan Ake, Marc Wilson and Brad Smith boost the defensive ranks, while Jordon Ibe will be hopeful of kicking on with more first-team football. Lewis Cook is a star of the future. And then along came Jack Wilshere, who has a major point to prove and should, fitness permitting, run the midfield for Eddie Howe s side. A marquee signing in the truest sense.2. MANCHESTER CITYMajor ins: Ilkay Gundogan, Nolito, Oleksandr Zinchenko, Leroy Sane, Gabriel Jesus, Marlos Moreno, John Stones, Claudio BravoMajor outs: Martin Demichelis, Marlos Moreno, Oleksandr Zinchenko, Joe Hart, Wilfried Bony, Samir Nasri, Eliaquim Mangala, Jason DenayerTalk about flexing your muscles. Not content with bringing in one of the world s best managers, City splashed the cash with abandon this summer, bringing in a bumper crop of established stars and bright young things.Nolito has made an instant impact and Ilkay Gundogan will be the heartbeat of the side when he returns from injury. Claudio Bravo is the archetypal Pep Guardiola goalkeeper and, along with John Stones, will add passing ability from the back. And in Leroy Sane and Gabriel Jesus, City have two of the biggest emerging talents out there.The Joe Hart situation raised eyebrows, but the other exits will have cut down the wage bill and are unlikely to have a major impact on the field.1. MANCHESTER UNITEDMajor ins: Eric Bailly, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Henrikh Mkhitaryan, Paul PogbaMajor outs: Victor Valdes, Nick Powell, Guillermo Varela, Paddy McNair, Donald Love, Adnan Januzaj, Cameron Borthwick-Jackson, Tyler Blackett, Will KeaneAfter years of Ed Woodward tackling transfer market with all the elegance and conviction of a beached whale, some respect where it s due: United had a great, great summer.Their approach was to focus on quality over quantity: Jose Mourinho had identified four positions in need of reinforcement and United went out and got top players for them all.The money was sobering, of course, but hey, if it sparks a proper challenge after three shaky years, it will have been well spent.