Sonam Kalra (right) performs one of her songsTafadzwa Zimoyo : Arts ReporterThere was excitement in Harare yesterday following the launch of India in the Sunshine City Festival that will see arts products from India being showcased in the capital. The festival, which is running under the theme Celebrate India in Zimbabwe , showcases India s cultural diversity and dynamism through both classical and contemporary offerings in music, theatre, dance, food, film and yoga. In a statement the organisers said the aim of the festival is to bring cultural integration between the two countries. The Festival has a simple aim that is to bring together cultures of two countries that share common histories. Starting with textile and mining trade dating centuries ago, today the relationship between the two nations combines close social, political and economic ties. The first Festival of India in the Sunshine City will recapture the spirit that led the flow of ideas, commerce and people, read part of the statement.The 10-day Festival will be a bouquet of India s vibrant culture designed to charm Harare. The show will see multiple award winning singer and composer Sonam Kalra performing. She has shared the stage with legendary musicians like Sir Bob Geldof and Sufi Legend Abida Parveen. Sonam has been recognised and appreciated for her all-inclusive definition of Sufism. Sonam s unique brainchild, The Sufi Gospel Project , which blends the many voices of faith, through poetry, prayer and music to create one universal voice of faith, has earned her international critical acclaim, said the organisers.Again the project has been performed at the very prestigious Women in the World Summit, MTV Coke Studio, The World Sufi Peace Festival at the Pyramids and The Jaipur Literature Festival, amongst many others.The event will see an exciting imagery of colours, music, gorgeous costumes and the razzmatazz of fantastic sets, all combined to create the pallet that replicates Bollywood. The show embodies the partnership spirit of the Festival. Indian artistes and local African artistes (dancers) collaborate under the guidance of the immensely talented Gilles Chuyen. Gilles will choreograph the show with local African dancers by training and sharing with them the Bollywood dance form in a 10-day residential workshop in Harare. The show will comprise famous Bollywood hits and will be solely a dance and music show, with no story line or theatre aspect present, keeping the act strictly musical. Also on show will be popular theatre play Dance Like a Man written by Mahesh Dattani while celebrity chef Vikram S Udaygiri will show his expertise. The play is the story of Jairaj and Ratna, two Bharat Natyam dancers past their prime contrasted with that of their daughter Lata, who is on the brink of establishing herself as a brilliant dancer. The play probes the surface of the characters to question their deeper motivations, but the mode is comic rather than tragic. 