Dr Misheck SibandaHerald Correspondent&#8212; Government should be disability inclusive in policy formulation and implementation as efforts are now under way to domesticate the United Nations Convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda said. In a speech read on his behalf by his deputy Dr Ray Ndhlukula at the National Disability Expo, Dr Sibanda said in order to make the convention meaningful, persons withdisabilities must be viewed as in need of empowerment rather than charity. As such, he said other Constitutional provisions including a host of other rights such as the right to state- funded education, psychological and functional treatment, employment as well as the right to be treated with dignity, must be upheld. In 2013, we ratified the UN Convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. This convention, while stressing on the equality of all human beings, is a concise elaboration of the rights of persons with disabilities, he said. The convention also stresses on issues of universal designs and reasonable accomodation. If these principles are embedded in our policies, persons with disabilities will be able to participate at an equal level with their non- disabled counterparts. It is with this in mind that work is currently under way to domesticate the convention to be part of our law in keeping with article 34 of the Constitution. Dr Sibanda said the convention also stresses on non-discrimination as a foundation of a just society, encourages the active and meaningful involvement and participation of persons with disabilities in all spheres of life and that persons with disabilities must be involved in decision making on issues concerning them. Dr Sibanda said this will also greatly improve the situation of those with hearing impairment and have always borne the brunt of exclusion in the dissemination of information. In May, 2013, we adopted a new Constitution which introduced disability as a rights issue. In terms of the Constitution, sign language is now an official language. This means that we must quickly ensure that there are sign language interpreters in important places to which the public has access, he said.Acting national advisor on disability issues to the President and Cabinet, who is also Health Advisor to the President and Cabinet Dr Timothy Stamps said international conventions and City by- laws must be domesticated and activated for people with disabilities. He castigated council for not implementing its own by-laws which requires it to set aside 3,5 percent employment opportunities for the disabled.Theme of the expo was: Urgent Need for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on The Rights of Persons with Disabilities for Inclusive Policies. Disability activist Mr Gift Mabhaudhi implored Government to make assessable to people with disabilities land, ablution facilities in the Central Business District as well as the creation of employment opportunities.Present at the event were permanent secretaries, senators, representatives of different organisations as well as schools for children with disabilities.