TODAY I want to talk to you from my heart and give a few tips on how to attain success. I cannot say I have always made it right in life. There are mistakes that I have made along the way. There are choices that I then realised later in life that they were wrong choices. In fact, in life there are places and portions of your life that every time you look back, you do not admire anything and you regret.It actually makes mentorship necessary and important. Mentorship becomes the key to your success because then, simply having a mentor you already have an experience personified. You no longer have to go through it in order to experience it.You no longer have to go through so much pain for you to know that it is the wrong way to take. You simply have to have someone who has experienced all that before. Get in touch with that person and pain can be avoided. Well that is if mentorship is something that you value and appreciate. I have taught members of my congregation, especially youths, telling them that there are people that God has assigned to bring us joy, excitement and energy and at times these people are in places where we do not expect to find them. Finding out who they are is the critical part. If you are the boring person no one wants to be around you. Everyone is looking for someone who can excite them. Avoid people, those kind of people all the time. No one enjoys the company of people who always come to complain. There are people whom you can talk to for a few minutes and like you have known them for a very long time simply because they know the right things to say and express themselves in a joyful manner.Investigate your inner circle, the ones you trust and interact with. The ones that you call and they call you all the time. How much energy do they have, are they excited and motivated because if they are not motivated they cannot motivate you. Yes, there are people who can pray and fast all the time, but there are moments you just need someone to walk into your life and give you that joy and you feel energised.You feel like you can do the impossible. Just because of that one connection. There are people like that, but again those people are also rare to find. People that are discouraged can never encourage you. People that are bitter and discouraged are hurt and in pain and they cannot help you. The least they can do is share their pain everywhere they go.Looking at the word of God, there is a father who brought his son to Jesus, but Jesus was not there he had gone to the mountain where he was transfigured. His little boy was sick, but Jesus was not there, but the father knew Jesus would heal the boy. A situation was brought to them and the father said to Jesus I have brought my son to your disciples and they could not cure him, hoping that it s something they can correct. He brought his son because he thought by virtue of their closeness to greatness, to Jesus, cure should have been available. To prove that this father s assumption was correct Jesus looked at his disciples and said, you faithless generation you are so perverse how long shall I be with you and how long shall I suffer for you.There are two things mentioned here, time and proximity. Can you see something, isn t it amazing to realise that this is something that the disciples were allowed to do, but could not do it. He had already allowed them to heal the sick, raise the dead and yet still they could not do it.It s not everything that you try and it fails then you assume God does not allow you to do it. Some of you people can be so close to greatness and people will assume that you can also do it. It s only when a problem has been presented to you that people will realise that you cannot do it.I see people coming to greatness and miss that opportunity. People can spend time with significant people and still they walk away empty handed, when you have an opportunity with someone who has achieved something that you want in life what you should do is very simple. It s easy, ask questions, good and relevant questions and listen to the answers. If you want to learn and improve your life ask questions and you will begin to attract answers. Every answer is looking for a question so have questions.I once told people my experience of going to some place in the forest. I enjoy fishing and hunting or just doing something that allows me to relax. So on this particular day I thought of a Pastor that I bought a gun for, but was not sure if he was hunting and using it. So I wanted to see if he was able to utilise what I gave him.I was impressed because he was very sharp and seemed to have been doing a lot of target practise. Initially, I had said to myself, I would take this gun away from him if he was not able to use it. When you give someone something you want to see them using it and excelling. So I was looking while he was shooting. We went to sit under a very tall gum tree. While we were there talking, birds came and they would use one direction to go pick up food in the fields. He could look up and see when it was coming and the moment it landed I would tell him to shoot. Then another one would come and he would shoot. When he finished I told him that I wanted to show him something.You are good at shooting birds, but you are not good at shooting . . . look at the birds you are shooting I said to him, they are dying in pain and bleeding. When you shoot, you should be absolutely certain it will go down. Some of them were falling, but far from the tree, he was shooting them in a way that allowed them to travel after being shot yet they should just fall close by, right where we were seated.He was now relaxed because it was now my turn. So I would just stand up take my gun and shoot. I would joke with him saying if the bullet is not in the head I will not eat it. Shooting is something that I just enjoy, this is not exaggeration, you know a fly, you would see a fly using binoculars and I would take a fly by a bullet.I shot several birds that time and he then asked me saying, man of God how come I am not seeing you looking up before shooting, rather you simply stand up and shoot. To him I knew what he meant, he thought I was using the prophetic powers to locate the birds. He was learning something new. I told him I am not prophesying. Look I have been coming to this place for some time and I know this place more than you do. The reason why we sit down and keep on moving is because we are following the shadow of the tree. I do not look up, I look down and if I notice any movement on the shadow I stand up to shoot. When a bird comes I do not see it physically, it s stressful, I will see the bird on the shadow on the ground. You see the problem is if you do not ask. He could have assumed that it s the prophetic and started fasting and praying. The easiest way for you to learn and be a successful person is by asking questions.I said this is not something prophetic it s something you can be trained to do. Most of what we actually see people doing and we call them successful, we can be trained to do it. If only you can ask the right questions. How can you be around Jesus for a long time and still demons do not fear you. Jesus is surprised and shocked how can these people be close to me and still not be able to cast out demons. Closeness cannot guarantee your success. More so from your questions if you demonstrate an ability to comprehend answers you are likely to be given more information.There is always a person assigned to you by God who is able to help you. Being close is one thing and learning from that person is another thing . . .To be continued next week.