MANCHESTER . Jose Mourinho has hit out at football Einsteins for trying to undermine his and Manchester United s achievements in the wake of the team s recent run of three successive losses. United returned to winning ways in beating League One s Northampton Town 3-1 in the third round of the English League Cup on Wednesday night. Afterwards, Mourinho praised his team for delivering a positive performance before turning on critics following the scrutiny that has come his and United s way following defeats to Manchester City, Feyenoord and Watford last week. I know that some football Einsteins football is full of Einsteins I know that they tried to delete 16 years of my career, the Portuguese told MUTV. They tried to delete an unbelievable history of Man United football club and to focus on a bad week with three bad results. But that s the new football it s full of Einsteins. I can understand clearly the disappointment if the fans are disappointed with the last week. I understand completely but I m sure that with the team going back home [against Leicester City on Saturday] they will be behind the team like they always are. Goals from Michael Carrick, Ander Herrera and Marcus Rashford eased United to victory at Sixfields and into the fourth round, where they will face Manchester City at Old Trafford next month. We deserved to win clearly, said Mourinho [It was as] difficult as I was expecting, but we were totally in control for the first 35 minutes and then we were again in control for the last 45. The team was in control from the beginning and the substitutions were just a contribution but overall the team was completely in control. So, difficult match but overall a positive performance. Pep Guardiola and Mourinho will meet again after the two Manchester clubs were paired together in the fourth round draw for the League Cup Wednesday night.Cup holders City, who won 2-1 at Old Trafford in the Premier league this month, will return there in the last week of October after their 2-1 win at Swansea.The Manchester derby was not the only heavyweight tie, with Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur also set to do battle for a place in the quarter-finals.Meanwhile, there will be a London derby between West Ham United and Chelsea, who won a dramatic third-round tie against Leicester in extra-time on Tuesday.Norwich s reward for beating Everton at Goodison Park is a trip to Elland Road to face Leeds while Preston, who took the Premier League scalp of Bournemouth, will travel to Newcastle. The Guardian.