Ellina Mhlanga : Sports ReporterWITH the Junior World Cup fast approaching, the Hockey Association of Zimbabwe are stepping up efforts to secure funds for the team and have lined up a golf day on September 23 at Royal Harare. The World Cup starts on November 24 and ends on December 4 in Santiago, Chile. Sixteen countries are set to participate. Zimbabwe s Under-21 women s team qualified for the event early this year during the Junior Africa Cup in Namibia, which served as a qualifier for the world tourney.HAZ president, Humphrey Chigwedere, said they were looking at raising $20 000 on the day. Their budget has been set at $120 000. The golf day is going ahead as planned, in fact we are going to have a meeting on the 22nd with the fundraising team, but it s actually on and we are ready. We are targeting to raise $20 000 and everything is set. We have also gone out to look for prizes for the participants. We are targeting almost everyone for this event. This is not the first fundraising programme we are doing. We have done a couple of programmes. We have done a raffle and we are also planning to have a concert night, but this is the big one. We are working flat out so that we do not miss the $120 000 target. If we miss the target people will have to look for individual sponsorship and we are trying to minimise on that, Chigwedere said.Zimbabwe are in Pool A together with defending champions the Netherlands, United States and Korea.The HAZ president said the team has to be in Chile by November 21.Chigwedere said despite the underdogs tag they would not be intimidated. Look it s going to be tough. No matter who you play it s always going to be tough. But now that the draw is out, the coaches and management are doing their homework. At junior level anything can happen. We know some of these teams had their players at the Olympics, but our strength is we have a number of ladies playing outside the country and they are used to some of the opponents they will face. I feel our ladies will do their best, Chigwedere said.According to the draw, Pool B is made up of Argentina, France, Germany and Japan while Pool C consists of Australia, Chile, England and South Africa.Belgium, China, New Zealand and Spain makes up Pool D.