 We are African people first; Zimbabwe and Africa are an identity and homeland of choice, says Viola Plummer, chairperson of the convenors of the pro-Zimbabwe march, the December 12th Movement. She is seen during the march in New YorkThe Interview Tichaona ZindogaSome Zimbabwean activists led by Pastor Evan Mawarire of the so-called #ThisFlag campaign wanted to stage a #ShutDownUN demonstration during the just-ended United Nations General Assembly meeting in New York, USA, to embarrass President Mugabe and smuggle the country onto the global agenda as part of an orchestrated plan to bring regime change in Zimbabwe, hotly sought by Western countries. However, the American-sponsored Mawarire and company got more than they bargained for as they were outnumbered and outmanoeuvred by a group of pan-African and pro-Zimbabwe American protesters. Our Political Editor Tichaona Zindoga (TZ) reached out to the chairperson of the convenors of the pro-Zimbabwe march, the December 12th Movement, Viola Plummer (VP), to find out how they exposed Mawarire and their general sentiment on Zimbabwe.TZ: You recently mounted a demonstration in support of President Mugabe and Zimbabwe at a time some activists had targeted the UN General Assembly in a bid to denounce and embarrass the Zimbabwean leader. Who is December 12th Movement and what was the motivation of your actions?VP: December 12th is a popular, pan-African, anti-imperialist human rights organisation with consultative status with the UNECOSOC and consultative status with the African Union. We are Zimbabwe patriots, the political rear and frontline against any threats, covertly and overtly that seek to undermine the sovereignty of Zimbabwe. The motivation and mission was to counter the attacks on the Republic of Zimbabwe and the leadership of H.E. Robert Gabriel Mugabe.We had to expose the use of this hashtag social media, US State Department, Britain, European Union, Australian puppets as that front for the continued attack on Zimbabwe and the blatant violation of Zimbabwe s right to sovereignty and self-determination.Further, genuine African, Zimbabwean patriots would not join hands with the US given its interventionist, murderous history in Africa and throughout the world. We consider their unity with these heirs of the worst slavery known to humanity our enemies. Further as sons and daughters of Africa we exist in the belly of the beast; our treatment at the hands of the US government: incarceration, poverty, homelessness, on and on in every social indicator we are discriminated against.TZ: Some quarters have been accusing you of being bought off by Zimbabwean authorities and some have called you homeless people. What is your response to that?VP: In answer to #2, the question deserves no dignity of truth. We will never be entrapped by traitors insults.TZ: How did you plan and stage the action and did you not feel there could be clashes between you and the hashtag activists?VP: No, we are here in New York. We live in the belly of the beast, the citadel of imperialism. We will never surrender to the plots and conspiracies to externally (effect a) coup d tat.TZ: I m sure you have heard the leader of the so-called #ThisFlag movement give speeches and interviews, what is your assessment of their sentiments?VP: We cannot discern and differentiate their sentiments from the script of the US government. To call for sanctions to continue as a tool to correct corruption is ludicrous. The US government is hypocritical, racist in its very self and self only interest policies. Witness its policies around the world. They seek regime changes as an international policy as they choose who should lead in their interest. Remember Morgan Tsvangirai (of the opposition) MDC? America has stated unequivocally they have no permanent friends only permanent interestsTZ: Some people have raised red flags over a Zimbabwean or group of Zimbabweans approaching racist white-led America for assistance. What do you make of such an interaction and in particular it has been noted that US is brutal and murderous to its own black people?VP: Every domestic and foreign policy action of the United States seeks to enforce political/economic domination and white supremacy over the globe. Groups that build alliances with this agenda are useful tools for its success and their narrow self-interest. We Africans, captured and exploited through a long history of oppression here, understand this reality.TZ: You represent one section of the American populace &#8211; even within the black community. How is the Zimbabwe issue understood by Americans?VP: No we are African people first; Zimbabwe and Africa are an identity and homeland of choice.TZ: Zimbabwe is under US sanctions, what do you think it will take for the embargo to be removed?VP: This will only need a pan-African world movement by sons and daughters in the Diaspora and international political/economic solidarity which undermines the effects of such regime change assaults on nations right to sovereignty and independence.TZ: Lastly, what in your view is the future of relations between the United States of America and Zimbabwe as well as Africa in general?VP: America is an imperialist superpower, with one agenda for Africa, neo-colonialism. Therefore, this relationship will by necessity not be harmonious. However, international respect comes from power and the ability to establish the authority and will of a country s people over their culture, resources and trade. Zimbabwe s indomitable commitment to the right to self-determination and thereby its leading in the African world will shape how it and Africa will be respected by America and any other imperialist power. (It s) Pan-Africanism or Perish!