Minister ChinamasaTalent Gore Herald Reporter Government will continue strengthening the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority s (zimra) operations in an effort to fight corruption at the country s border posts, Finance and Economic Development Minister Patrick Chinamasa said last Friday. His remarks come amid reports that the $600 000 security upgrade done at the Beitbridge Border Post was beginning to pay dividends, with corrupt officials being exposed mainly by the closed circuit television (CCTV).Government secured the equipment, which also includes lie detector machines, to curb corruption at the border post and CCTV cameras were installed at points unknown to border personnel. The introduction of closed circuit television system (CCTV) at the Beitbridge Border Post is meant to monitor adherence to procedures and curb corruption, Minister Chinamasa said on Friday while addressing delegates at the fifth edition of the Taxpayer Appreciation Day in Harare. The Electronic Single Window System, for instance, provides a platform, which enables all Government agencies operating at ports of entry and exit to coordinate their activities to reduce turnaround time. I would like to applaud ZIMRA for a job well done for the various initiatives, which it launched for purposes of accountability and transparency which we believe will help curb corruption. As the Government, we will do everything within our means to strengthen ZIMRA s operations through embracing appropriate technology. Minister Chinamasa urged African countries to improve their efficiencies in collecting taxes and duties. He said such efficiencies could be enhanced by preparing the continent to tackle complex tax evasion schemes, which went undetected in the absence of proper skills to gather intelligence and share it across the continent. I appreciate the critical role that institutions such as the World Customs Organisations (WCO), African Tax Administration Forum (ATAF), Southern African Development Community (SADC) and Eastern and Southern Africa Money Laundering Group (ESAAMLG) are playing in preparing our countries to mobilise domestic revenue and fight illicit activities, Minister Chinamasa said.Minister Chinamasa applauded taxpayers for their contribution to the economy of Zimbabwe. It is indeed a momentous occasion where we celebrate responsible citizenship, good corporate governance accountability and real patriotism which are exhibited through paying taxes, he said. Indeed, you are sustaining hospitals, the education sector, the civil service, our infrastructure and several social amenities and services which the Government provide to its people .ZIMRA Acting Commissioner General Happias Kuzvinzwa urged African countries to work together to improve the efficiency of their systems. Let us exchange information and intelligence, benchmark with each other s systems and continue to proffer solutions to the challenges our continent faces, he said. The efficiency and effectiveness of our systems and keeping abreast with technology will keep us relevant in our respective countries as the revenue administrators, he said.