Cuthbert NyasangoEllina Mhlanga Sports ReporterOLD Mutual Westgate Half marathon defending champion, Rutendo Nyahora, says she will be eyeing her fourth title when she competes in the race tomorrow. Besides the 21kmm race, which is the main event, there is also the 10km and 5km races. Nyahora, who was at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games last month, has won the Westgate half marathon three times. I am running on Sunday. I have recovered from Rio. It didn t take me much time to recover because before Rio I had enough training. I also did three big races after Rio and I won the races. I am also looking forward to do my best on Sunday. I am ready to defend my title, said Nyahora.The sponsors of the race Old Mutual have confirmed that this year s main prize, for the 21km, is $3 000 for both men and women.And all the prizes from the different categories combined add up to $27 000.Harare Athletics Board secretary-general, Silas Muringani, said they are geared up to host the half marathon, which has become one of the top races on the athletics calendar since 2012. I think preparations are going on well and we are now ready to host the event as Harare Athletics Board and NAAZ (National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe). We are glad that Old Mutual have maintained their word that this actually becomes a national event. The prizes, they have not changed despite the harsh economic situation. They have maintained prizes for all categories, which is good for our athletes, said Muringani.The HAB secretary-general said with most of the top long-distance runners expected to compete tomorrow, they are optimistic of a competitive event. I am actually putting my money on Kelvin Pangiso from the Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Services. He has been in a devastating form. He has been winning most of the crucial races, he won the Tanganda race and if he continues from where he left he may win the race. But this one is different in that the prize money is high, so the competition is tough and we expect all top athletes to be there. So it s not going to be any easy race for anyone. We expect the likes of Wirimai Juwawo, Cuthbert Nyasango, Kelvin Pangiso and Elijah Mabhunu and any one of them can actually take the prize. For the ladies Rutendo Nyahora may be eyeing the prize as well. We don t rule out the likes of Constance Nyasango and her training partner Olivia Chitate. The race has marketed itself well before, so we won t have any problems with people coming. We expect athletes from all over the country, said Muringani.Mabhunu is the reigning champion in the men s section.