Winnie MandelaCAPE TOWN. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela personifies everything about the African saying, Woman, you are a rock , South African deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa said at her 80th birthday celebrations in Cape Town. But she is not any other rock, she is a diamond, build to last a lifetime, built never to break, said Ramaphosa at a function held at a top city hotel. She remained a symbol of strength for the many women who had lost their husbands to the liberation struggle, said Ramaphosa. Enduring the worst in the times of oppression she ensured that the people would not lose heart. She served as a pictogram for those who lived in constant harassment from an imbecilic, illegitimate and cowardice apartheid state. Regardless of her own pain, she ensured that the children and families of liberation were clothed and fed. Her greatest accolade was to ensure that Madiba would never be forgotten, that his name would remain on the limps of the oppressed people of the world. Ramaphosa quoted Maya Angelou s poem I Rise and said that, Madikizela-Mandela had lived with pain, loss and regret, but had risen above it. And, at 80, she still rises. Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema attended the occasion, dressed in a tuxedo. Much as Julius Malema and I disagree on many things we agree on mam uWinnie Mandela s lasting beauty Deputy President Ramaphosa said which saw the entire dining room erupt with applause.On the guest list was head of Independent Media chief executive Iqbal Surv , Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba as well as Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula.Madikizela-Mandela is still a member of Parliament but is rarely seen in Parliament.The glittering and star-studded event was held at one of Cape Town s swanky joints.SA music icons Letta Mbulu and her husband, Caiphus Semenya were among performers at a concert to celebrate Madikizela-Mandela s 80th birthday.A number of events have been planned to honour the struggle icon who celebrates her birthday on September 26. City Press/IOL/The Times.