Knowledge MusonaSports Reporter WARRIORS star striker Knowledge Musona could yet escape with a fine for his role in the Belgian betting storm in which he is alleged to have gambled on some matches in the European country s top-flight league. A day after receiving the backing of his club KV Oostende in the gambling saga, Musona got more relief yesterday amid reports that the Warriors chief striker will not be banned as his case had been passed over by government prosecutors.Musona will not be facing criminal charges over the storm that has also sucked in a number of players including Oliver Deschacht, who plies his trade with Belgian giants Anderlecht.Reports from Belgium yesterday suggested that Musona will now await a hearing with the Belgian betting commission. KV Oostende, in standing by Musona, indicated that there was no evidence to suggest that the striker had placed bets in matches he featured and after talking to the player when he notified them of the case, they were satisfied that he needed to be supported.Crucially for Musona, he unlike Deschacht, is not facing criminal charges for the offence. Deschacht is being criminally prosecuted because he bet on a game he was involved with, but not Musona. His (Musona) case has been passed over by government prosecutors and he is now waiting for a hearing with the Belgian Betting Commission and is likely to be fined, sources said.The indications also come as Ludwig Sneyers, the CEO of the Pro League announced yesterday that an action plan was being put in place to get gambling among footballers under control. The main aim is to make it impossible for players to gamble on their own matches, Sneyers stressed. The action plan which will soon be brought out and that co-operation will be between the Pro League, the clubs, the Gambling Commission and the sector is based on three main pillars, Sneyers said. First, the rules must be standardised. At present, there is indeed too much uncertainty about what can and what can not. Secondly, it must be made work of prevention at all levels. Both youth teams and amateurs as professional footballers should be sensitised. If there has not been sufficient protection may afterwards follow a more severe sanction if there is any way of a breach. Finally, there must be clear agreements with the industry, explained Sneyers. We are at the beginning of the year (after researching OH Leuven players Riou and Reynaud) has requested the information. We obtained now. We have agreed that it should go faster. Our goal should be to make it impossible for players to gamble on their own games, said Sneyers.Despite four players including Laurent Henkinet (Waasland-Beveren) and Tuur Dierckx (Antwerp, former Club Brugge) having been caught in the web at the weekend, it is Deschacht who has far faced criminal prosecution and a fine while there is also a strong possibility of up to five years imprisonment for the defender.In his defence, Deschacht claimed that was his brother Xavier who used his account for the gambling. Henkinet has, however since been dismissed by Waasland-Beveren. The 24-year-old substitute goalkeeper gambled on matches including his own team.According to the club, the goalkeeper acted against his contract. The board of directors of Waasland-Beveren decided yesterday after careful consideration to immediately terminate the co-operation with Laurent Henkinet. After thorough investigation revealed that Laurent Henkinet made heavy contractual mistakes that makes collaboration immediately definitively impossible, read the Waasland-Beveren website. In light of the recent report established that Laurent Henkinet gambled to his own team in a match in which he had drawn himself which is not only prohibited by contract, but also contrary to the applicable law and ethics. In addition, the player has the club accordingly was not a single moment itself which informed an additional reason for the club to make this decision, the statement read. Henkinet had been paying for Waasland-Beveren since July 2015.