MADRID. The rest of Barcelona s squad will have to do a little bit more to make up for the absence of five-times World Player of the Year Lionel Messi for the next three weeks, according to captain Andres Iniesta. The Argentina forward faces a spell on the sidelines after sustaining a groin injury in Wednesday s 1-1 La Liga draw with Atletico Madrid. There s no question we are stronger with Messi, Iniesta told Cadena Cope radio ahead of today s match at Sporting Gijon. When these things happen we all have to give a little bit more. We lost two points against Atletico and we have to make sure we don t throw away any more. Third-placed Barca, who won eight of their 10 games when a knee injury kept Messi out for two months last season, are three points behind La Liga leaders Real Madrid.However, Spanish champions Barca have three tricky obstacles to overcome in the next week as they head also to Borussia Moenchengladbach in the Champions League on Wednesday before another away trip to Celta Vigo next Sunday. We all wish that he was with us. The team is stronger with him than without him, but these unexpected situations happen, Barca captain Iniesta said on Thursday. Squads win titles. Individuals help, but it is the squad as a whole that wins things. Without Messi, Barca s other two star forwards Luis Suarez and Neymar will be expected to take on extra responsibility just as they did in scoring 16 goals in the six league games Messi missed during a two-month injury layoff last season.Sergio Busquets also came off early against Atletico due to the after-effects of a fever, but should be fit to start in Asturias.Arda Turan is the favourite to replace Messi after deputising ably on the other side of the Barca frontline when Neymar was absent at the start of the season because of his participation in the Rio Olympics.One familiar face to Barca may not be available for Sporting due to a comical injury on-loan Brazilian full-back Douglas injured his hip when sleeping on the team bus back from a 2-1 defeat to Celta Vigo on Wednesday. Reuters.