Arnold Schwarzenegger and girlfriend Heather MilliganArnold Schwarzenegger took his girlfriend Heather Milligan for a spin in his Bugatti convertible in Beverly Hills on Saturday.The 69-year-old Golden Globe winner flashed his gap-toothed grin as he drove around his 41-year-old ladylove since 2012. The University of Nevada graduate and former gymnast is just as fitness-obsessed as Arnie, being the founder and president of Elite OrthoSport Physical Therapy.The former California Governor chomped on a cigar while sporting stubble and a white baseball cap emblazoned with Make America Lift Again .Schwarzenegger rocked his $25 navy Made In America T-shirt benefiting the CA Fire Foundation, which he paired with an expensive timepiece and green cowboy boots.The Austrian-born action star s sighting came the day after he proudly celebrated 33 years as an American citizen. It is still one of the proudest days of my life, Arnold gushed to his 26.5M followers on social media.Earlier that day, the seven-time Mr. Olympia wore a similar shirt with red Nike shorts for an invigorating ride on his bicycle.Despite pushing 70, the patriotic former politician has been rocking a far trendier undercut hairstyle these days.Schwarzenegger made sure to get Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump s approval before hosting the 15th season of The Celebrity Apprentice , premi ring on January 2 on NBC. I called Donald Trump and I said to him, I just want you to know that I would like to take the position that you had. You did such a great job. I don t know if I can fill your shoes, Arnie recalled on In Depth With Graham Bensinger. And he said, Arnold I think that is such a great idea. That s fantastic. You re the right guy. I know all of the other characters that want to get it. I told NBC don t take them Schwarzenegger s the guy. On August 27, the Terminator: Genisys actor s four children Patrick, Christina, Katherine, and Christopher with ex-wife Maria Shriver reunited at Sony Studios for The Roast of Rob Lowe.The handsome USC graduate spent Saturday evening counting down the minutes until his 23rd birthday.Meanwhile, the Emmy winner s love child Joseph with housekeeper Mildred Patty Baena recently starred in a shot-for-shot recreation of Terminator 2: Judgment Day for his director pal Ben Hess.Secretly fathering the 18-year-old Pepperdine University student eventually led to the end of his 25-year marriage to the 60-year-old journalist. Dailymail.