Hilda MabuTafadzwa Zimoyo : Arts ReporterMiss World Zimbabwe 2015, top eight finalist Hilda Mabu (pictured) is set to represent the country at this year s edition of Miss Intercontinental 2016 in Sri Lanka. The pageant which is in its 45th edition will see other 88 contestants from across the world vying for the coveted title. The 24-year-old model who has made a name in the modelling industry not only as a runway model but catwalk too will leave on October 3 for boot-camp. In an interview with the lanky model, she said was excited as preparations are at advanced stage. I am so thrilled and honoured to represent my country. I promise to do my best considering that my predecessor made it in top four. I have already started the preparations and I have hectic weeks ahead from gym lessons, grooming and etiquette to fashion style. I have engaged renowned top lifestyle coaches who are helping me, she said.The culinary art student said some of country s best designers and fashion icons are helping here. I am working with Tapfumaneyi Munenga of Coco designs for my national dress and other outfits. Nomathemba Ndebele of popular Posh has given me a designer gown while Marilyn Samambgwa ( Noe es) is doing the swimsuit, she said.Mabu said she entered the pageant because of passion and has what it takes to win. I love modelling and this is my passion. I hold a diploma in marketing and currently I am doing culinary art. I qualify to be queen because after going through all the requirements I am the best candidate. The organisers called for auditions via social media and I entered, she said.Asked if she would want to compete again for Miss World Zimbabwe, given a chance, she remained skeptical. I will see how it goes, but I love modelling, said the 1,8m tall model.Last year saw former Miss Zimbabwe Tendai Bongani Hunda crowned as Miss Intercontinental Africa at a glittering function held in Magdeburg in Germany.She had 4 733 votes which earned her a spot in the top five after a great support from Zimbabweans all over the world and friends of Zimbabwe who voted for her online.The coveted title went to Russian beauty Valentina Rasulova, while the Christi McGarry of Philippines was voted first princess and second princess went to the US Biranne Bailey.Hunda was later joined in top five by Katherine Garcia of Venezuela.