The all new Mazda CX-5 boasts of features that can be compared to noneTinashe Makichi : Motoring CorrespondentLarge Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) like the Mazda CX-5 are normally associated with off-road ability, low fuel economy and high carbon dioxide emissions but the all new CX-5 boasts of features that can be compared to none. Mazda s Skyactiv efficiency technology gave the all new Mazda CX-5 some of the lowest carbon dioxide emissions and highest fuel economy figures in the class, beating those of rivals such as the Honda CR-V and Toyota RAV4. However, the CX-5 also has the space to rival them, because its interior is large and the boot a generous size.This vehicle is definitely going to win the hearts of most people in Zimbabwe considering how the Honda CR-V managed to register its presence on the market eventually becoming a darling to most working women of the society. The CX-5 is definitely offering a new dimension expected to impress the local motoring public. It handles exceptionally well for a large SUV, while the amount of standard equipment you get is generous considering the car s relatively low price.With elegant lines, graceful details and a well-planted footprint, it stands proudly apart from other SUVs. Carefully considered design orientates everything around the driver.The new generation Mazda CX-5 has taken different sub-Saharan markets by storm as it offers sporty responses and nimble handling while also offering breakthrough Skyactiv technology for amazing fuel economy. It adds to driving enjoyment with cleverly integrated connectivity. Generally it s a level of performance you just cannot expect from an SUV. Sculpted, commanding and dynamic, it has been shaped without compromise. It s the result of our design direction, KODO Soul of Motion. The powerful, athletic cues of KODO capture the muscular beauty of an animal springing into motion. The energetic leap of a cheetah is reflected in Mazda CX-5, said Mazda South Africa.Mazda CX-5 positions controls and information to help you stay focused on the road ahead. The elegant atmosphere makes the sense of space even stronger. Distinct trim colours and textures feature in each model and are complemented by metallic highlights.What s more, staying in touch while on the move has never been easier. MZD connect links you to a load of content including Facebook and Twitter feeds, radio, podcasts and more. It can even read texts for you. You can also access a huge range of online content by linking your compatible smartphone seamlessly through MZD Connect.All of this and you also have stylish and dynamic design, coming together in a uniquely athletic SUV. When you re on the move in Mazda CX-5, your online world can move right with you. It s all brought together on a central touch screen placed to help your eyes stay on the road. The LED headlamps in the Individual and Akera create an enhanced sense of vitality by adopting a redesigned interior layout and new LED lighting signature.A newly designed grille and signature wing bring out bolder KODO design features. The multi-function commander control allows effortless selection of menus and functions with minimum distraction. Satellite navigation is easily read on the colour touch screen. Featuring spoken street names and advanced lane guidance.The Skyactiv technology results in reduced weight, helping unleash more agility. Skyactiv-G petrol engines give you responsive, smooth power from 2,0 or 2,5 litres. With Skyactiv-D you have got punchy turbo diesel thrust from 2,2 litres. Whichever you choose, fuel economy is exceptional.In both automatic and manual transmissions gear shifts are seamless. It all comes together with remarkable refinement, thanks to a luxurious ride and body that moves efficiently through the air.A fundamental rethink of the internal combustion engine releases more performance from less fuel. Precise multi-hole direct injection minimises fuel use. A unique piston design achieves more efficient combustion to boost power and lower emissions. A major reduction of internal friction liberates extra power, while a free-breathing 4-2-1 exhaust layout enhances efficiency.The 2,0 litre 4-cylinder engine delivers a sporty 121kW of power and 210Nm of torque, using only 6,4 litres of fuel every 100km. The muscular 2,5 litre engine punches out 141kW and 256Nm, yet uses just 7,4 litres of fuel per 100km.