Innocent Ruwende Senior Reporter Zanu-PF political commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere yesterday urged party supporters to vote for the party s candidate in Norton, saying voting for independent candidate Mr Temba Mliswa was tantamount to reversing the gains of the liberation struggle as he is being bankrolled by the West.Speaking at the launch of the campaign programme for Zanu-PF candidate for the Norton by-election Cde Ronald Chindedza in Kingsdale, Norton, Cde Kasukuwere said Mr Mliswa should not to be allowed to steal the Norton seat.The seat fell vacant following the expulsion of Cde Christopher Mutsvangwa from Zanu-PF.The by-election is set for October 22. Let us support Cde Chindedza as the party s candidate. You do not know Mliswa; he should not be allowed in Norton. Where have you seen a person being the only member of his party? If you are fired from Zanu-PF it means you are a problem child. Mliswa is a factory fault and he thinks people in this constituency are foolish. We do not want to import leaders for you; rally behind your own son. As the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing I assure you that the land problems you are facing at Kingsdale are over. No one will take your land. I will instruct the Urban Development Corporation to regularise this place and provide basic services, he said.He said Mr Mliswa is an agent of the West and is being bankrolled by the Americans.Zanu-PF Secretary for Administration Cde Ignatius Chombo briefed Minister Kasukuwere on the outcome of the Mashonaland West Zanu-PF Provincial Coordinating Committee meeting which was held before the campaign launch. When this seat was won by Mutsvangwa, he won it with a narrow margin. We should make sure that this time it will be a landslide victory. Mliswa was defeated by Cde Keith Guzah.He is always looking to contest in every by-election. We should have sound strategies for us to win. We have heard the problems being faced by residents. There are water problems, there are also land squabbles. The Minister of Lands should address that. The town s mortuary is also not working and people are going as far as Harare to access services, he said.On disciplinary issues, Cde Chombo said if a person was suspended from the party and not expelled and is still a Member of Parliament, they could still do their work in their constituency.On demonstrations, Cde Chombo, who is also Home Affairs Minister, said the reason why demonstrations were flopping was because the organisers had no cause. They were only saying Zanu-PF has stayed in power for too long, but they forget we won elections by a landslide in 2013. Those who want power should wait for 2018 elections. They know politically they have nothing to offer. They are irrelevant political parties formed by Western countries. Demonstrations are allowed in this country. Police only want leaders to identify themselves and give their vehicle number plates so that there is security and if property is destroyed they can compensate, he said.He said police are on standby mode to make sure there is peace and order in the country.Senate President Cde Edna Madzongwe said it was unfortunate that some war veterans were campaigning for Mr Mliswa. It is unfortunate that some war veterans are campaigning for Temba Mliswa who wants to reverse the gains of our hard-won independence, she said.Ministers Douglas Mombeshora and Walter Chidhakwa and several legislators also attended the rally.