Eng KundishoraZvamaida Murwira and Takudzwa Matambura The Computer Crime and Cyber Security Bill should be reviewed after every two years for it to remain relevant to ever-changing technological advancement, a senior Government official has said. Secretary for Information Communication and Technology, Postal and Courier Services Engineer Sam Kundishora said this during a consultative workshop on the Bill that was attended by several stakeholders in the ICT sector recently. This Bill should be revisited after every two years because ICT changes after every six months. This is my view based on the fact that technology is dynamic, said Eng Kundishora.He was responding to concerns on how the Bill will address fast moving technological changes.Eng Kundishora said the Bill is a result of initial wide consultation and model law generated by Sadc and the International Telecommunications Union.He was responding to allegations from some quarters that the Bill had been copied from Swaziland. Zimbabwe is not an island. It is within a grouping of Sadc, Comesa and African Union and whatever we do particularly of a policy nature like this, we work together. We have a model Bill that you will find in Zambia, South Africa and Zambia, said Eng Kundishora. Another provision we want included is that which make banks report if they have been hacked. At the moment, banks are not obliged to report, they report internally and the reason is that if people know about it they would not want to bank with that bank anymore. People have a right to know about that information. We are on record as saying we do not intend to shut down the internet. The internet is here to stay whether we like it or not, but we must accept we have an elephant in the house and as huge as it is, it is up for us to deal with this animal but we cannot abandon our house. One expert, Mr Kangai Maukazuva, said critics of the Bill claim the law has never been a successful tool in fighting cybercrimes. The law is a constraint because it does not successfully make this Bill fly. Out of 10 percent reported cases only 2 percent have been successfully prosecuted. Laws are also perceived as insufficient and slow in moving in tandem with developments, said Mr Maukazuva.He said there is need to come up with strategies that curb cybercrimes.Another expert, Engineer Oswell Chakwanda, said there was need to speak with one voice as Sub-Saharan Africa in terms of facing cyber security threats.