Chenjerai Shava Correspondent I hope that most Zimbabweans are fully aware of the chaos and instability that currently obtains in Libya. Today, Libya is in total ruin. It is no longer the modern state that owed this world no dime. The short-lived euphoria that swept through Libya as the so-called revolutionaries sought to remove Colonel Muammar Gaddafi has been replaced by gangs of ravaging militia. Reports coming from Libya suggest that almost everyone now has a gun.It should be remembered that this devastation in Libya is a direct product of power-hungry Libyan politicians, myopic citizens who agreed to be abused for political aggrandisement at the instigation of Western neo-colonialist states.Today, we are seeing an attempt at a repeat of the same ugly hand in Zimbabwe.And unfortunately, there are some among us who stand ready to be abused by power-hungry politicians in the mould of Joice Mujuru, Morgan Tsvangirai and their political cohorts, the so-called Tajamuka/Sesijikile, Zimbabwe Coalition of Unemployed Graduates or whatever names they are called.It really bothers right-thinking and peace-loving Zimbabweans as to what these groups intend to achieve through their violent behaviour in the name of democracy or exercising their constitutional rights. I will deal with this issue later, particularly as it relates to recent demonstrations and the most recent one against bond notes. But, firstly, let us examine what Joice Mujuru has to offer this nation? Dear reader, you will recall that Joice Mujuru only begins to see the undemocratic nature of Zanu-PF after having been sacked from both the party and Government. Where was Joice Mujuru all these years? Assuming that her current claims about Zanu-PF and its Government are founded, why did she not raise these concerns when she was the number two in the country? Clearly, hers is a question of sour grapes and she cannot take this country further unless if we now intend Zimbabwe to be led into the doldrums of Libya.Then we have our brother, the leader of the Movement for Dangerous Confusion (MDC) Morgan Tsvangirai and all those who subscribe to their whims and caprices, what did they do differently when they had the opportunity to be in government? This strange group of people, they never cease to amaze. They began by inviting sanctions to be imposed on the country their pleas were heeded by their handlers in Western capitals. Today, Zimbabwe is reeling under a myriad of economic challenges for which they are the main authors.Was it not the same MDC whose parliamentarians used to heckle the Head of State and Government in Parliament instead of finding solutions to challenges facing the nation and discussing progressive and developmental issues? Perhaps it is high time those who think that the MDC-T is a genuine opposition political party outside Government seriously re-considered their views.Is the MDC-T not acting like the proverbial fool who set his own house on fire and began calling people to see how fast he would extinguish the flames? These people are taking the nation for granted. It is sad to see our young men and women being fooled and sadly, some are swallowing the bait, hook, line and sinker.These graduates should know that their aspirations to ever get employed will be forever doomed once peace eludes this country. Remember the scores of people who are dying in the raging and tempestuous seas as they flee Libya. The Libyan graduates today are no better than they were under Gaddafi, who was dolling out free state benefits to all citizens. In Libya today, the war ravages on while its citizens live in abject poverty. There is no more infrastructure amid soaring gasoline and food prices which are exacerbating the already miserable conditions for Libyans. Libya would require decades to rebuild, assuming of cause that law and order and normalcy return. But as things stand now, such prospects are bleak and gloomy. Is this what our dear young graduates aspire for? I think not!We all agree that our economy is currently not performing well. Indeed, we should all be concerned about the growing numbers of the unemployed. But, what solution do we propose? Is it sufficient to call for the departure of the President without proffering solutions?And the demonstrations which are normally tainted as peaceful, are they providing solutions or worsening our situation? By the way, which serious investor is prepared to invest in a country where the citizens engage in demonstrations almost on a daily basis?We reminisce the early years when Zimbabwe had men and women of substance, the likes of the late Sydney Malunga and Lazarus Nzarayebani who were well-known for eloquently presenting their views with strict probity. The founding fathers and mothers and all those who sacrificed life and limb for this great nation should surely be turning in their graves when they see us threatening the peace and tranquillity prevailing in this country.Maybe, like some of our African brothers I have alluded to above, Zimbabweans never learn. We will, like our Libyan brothers live to rue the peace and orderliness we are enjoying and taking for granted today by encouraging demonstrations which we all are fully aware end in violence and destruction.While opposition politicians are expected to fearlessly uphold the interests of their constituencies, we expect them to maintain a perfect poise amid various and sometimes conflicting views and interests. They need to be honest with themselves and the constituencies they represent or aspire to represent. Unfortunately, this is not what we are seeing in the likes of Joice Mujuru and her colleagues.Fellow Zimbabweans, we do not want to set a dangerous precedent for our nation and the generations to come. Once we lose respect and discipline, the peace, the tranquil and senile environment currently obtaining in the country will melt away and vanish like ice in scorching heat.Zimbabweans should not be deceived. Surely we need to afford each other an opportunity to express our opinions without let or hindrance. This, I believe is the spirit of constitutional democracy. However, in the exercise of the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution, we ought to shun hooliganism clothed as freedom of speech or association.Our rights should be informed by the old-age values of ubuntu/hunhu, the precepts that informed our forebears who founded this great nation. There are no rights the world-over that are exercised without responsibility.Freedom and democracy in whatever form should not give free rein to a person s impulses and appetites to the detriment of others.On the contrary, we need to respect the worth and dignity of others. The true meaning of democracy is that before the state everyone has the right to live honourably under the conditions in which the designs and dispositions of providence have placed him or her.The danger of unlimited liberties and rights is profound. The level of rowdiness exhibited by some citizens who choose to exercise their rights without limits is not in harmony with the spirit of oneness and regard and respect for other people s rights.Those who are currently blinded by their quest for power must rethink their destructive strategies. Their behaviour is nauseating to say the least. In their lack of maturity they remain oblivious that such wild, uncouth, barbaric, wanton behaviour no longer sells.Suggestions are made (for example in the NewsDay Issue of August 4) that the Zimbabwe Republic Police are provoking and savaging people who will be exercising their democratic rights, an inference that the demonstrators, no matter what they do, should be left to their whims and caprices as they go about disturbing public peace.Indeed, while there is nothing wrong about anyone voicing his or her unconditional support for demonstrations and or demonstrators.Nonetheless, it is somehow unbecoming for the media to choose to distort facts and to encourage hooliganism, mayhem, disorder and chaos.According to the NewsDay, Violence broke out after police stopped the marchers from proceeding to Parliament, resulting in running battles with the protesters, who fought back using stones .For obvious reasons, the NewsDay report does not tell us where the protesters who were marching peacefully got the stones from in a Central Business District? Why were the peaceful protesters carrying stones our dear NewsDay reporter Obey Manayiti?Police carry tear smoke canisters and baton sticks on duty. Tell us about the stones.Failure by the Newsday to criticise those responsible for the violence is treacherous and smacks of biased and irresponsible journalism. It is irresponsible and naive to claim that the police were responsible for the violent demonstrations.In our criticism of police action we should be cautious not to encourage lawlessness by criminal elements in our midst. Of course we should continue to be critical of police activities but do so in measured and restrained ways that promote national peace and stability and the rights of all Zimbabweans and not only a section thereof.According to private media reports, the Zimbabwe police violated the citizens rights of freedom to demonstrate as enshrined in the Constitution.While we are all entitled to our views, it is pertinent to examine the totality of the circumstances surrounding each case before we start making spurious and unfounded accusations meant to foment lawlessness and disorder in the country.Indeed, the Constitution of Zimbabwe, section 59 in particular accords every person the right to demonstrate and to present petitions . Interestingly, this same constitutional provision has the following proviso: but these rights must be exercised PEACEFULLY .Clearly, the exercise of rights to demonstrate has limitations. These rights are not absolute. They should be exercised with some modicum of responsibility something which our fellow Zimbabweans in the private press deliberately, through malice or negligence fail to mention in their avowed criticism of Government and the law enforcement agents.This is not the first time the private media has distorted facts in their biased reporting. It was the same story for the Mabvuku turn off demonstrations.Maybe, for the doubting Thomases, it is necessary for them to know the following. On the day of the so-called Mabvuku-Epworth peaceful demonstrations , my sister and her husband were on their way from Rusape taking their sick child to a doctor in Harare. Little did they know that they would find the road blocked with stones and burning tyres? These are innocent citizens who had nothing to do with the demonstrations of which they became victims. Their only offence was to be at this site of the road at the time of the so-called peaceful demonstrations.I believe that the anger they felt and still feel as a family is similar to that which was felt by the opposition politicians and in particular those in the MDC-T when their dear leader Morgan Tsvangirai s vehicle was stoned a few years ago allegedly by Zanu-PF demonstrators who had barricaded the Kadoma-Sanyati road.In the subsequent criticism of police action, there was silence about the hooligans who beat up the police.We should condemn any violent inclined elements in our midst.The amount of inconvenience that these lawless and rogue demonstrators afflict on peace-loving citizens is enormous. We strongly abhor their actions. And Zimbabwe police are right and I suppose within their constitutional mandate of maintaining law and order to quell violent demonstrations.I personally grew up in a farming community where I used to witness farmers holding farming demonstrations. Those who are not into farming could also have witnessed similar and related demonstrations which are violent free, free from disturbance, calm, not involving violence or conflict. This is surely what a peaceful demonstration should be.In any event, our supreme law, in section 86 further prescribes limitations to the rights and freedoms set out in Chapter 4 of the Constitution. One of these limitations relate to equality and freedom in the interests of public order. As citizens, we are all equal before the law. Therefore, the demonstrators, in the exercise of their rights should, according to subsection 2 paragraph (d) of section 86; not prejudice the rights and freedoms of others. Period!We therefore look upon the police and other security organs of the state to provide us with security against fellow citizens who may at any time want to prejudice our rights and freedoms.Fellow Zimbabweans, we have no one but ourselves to ensure that our nation remains peaceful and stable despite the myriad of economic challenges that we are facing. These challenges require us to talk sense to each other and are never resolved by disrespect or violence.And by the way, fellow Zimbabweans need to watch videos and read the news on how their role models in Minnesota in the US dealt with protesters who were throwing fireworks, bottles and rocks at police officers during a protest along Interstate 94 motorway. We certainly do not pray for such a situation to occur in Zimbabwe.Equally, we also should not wish that our fellow citizens take the law into their own hands and jeopardise the peaceful environment obtaining in the country.The Holy Bible exhorts as follows: Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God&#8230; For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad .May the peace and tranquility we are enjoying prevail forever more! Long live Zimbabwe and long live our motherland. Chenjerai Shava is a social and political commentator and writes in his own personal capacity.