Tafadzwa Zimoyo : Lifestyle WriterThere is a time for everything. A time for summer and a time for winter. With the winter season beckoning, there is more to be to done in order to keep oneself, the entire family or lovebirds warm. The answer to the equation where do I go is by picking a resort that will satisfy you as well as give you an escape route from the strife and stresses of town. If you are a traveller visiting Zimbabwe and having fallen in love with its numerous resorts and other places of interest, the fact is that you will require a more ambient and hospitable facility for your accommodation.Your normal visitors guide can give you a plethora of good places to be visit, but there are some which stick out of the crop.It was a memorable experience when this writer was a guest at Chengeta Safari Lodge which is located about 82km outside Harare locus along the Harare-Bulawayo Road.Living up to its name, which in the local Shona language is interpreted as being hospitable, Chengeta Lodge has managed to do that for its stream of clients who frequent the place. We decided to call this place Chengeta Lodge out of the view that we should offer a safer, reliable, conducive and hospitable environment for our patrons, said Grace Pondani, an official at the safari lodge. People should feel like they are in the hands of a caring mother or a trusted person who is always keeping guard over them. She added: This is the reason why families, friends and companies opt for this joint because it accords them the ambience they desire. No wonder in one of their brochures, Chengeta Lodge is described as one of Zimbabwe s leading lodges. Chengeta means to take care of or to look after . It defines our approach to hospitality. Whether you are looking for a short safari holiday packed with an endless array of adventure, a rejuvenating weekend getaway or a unique venue for your special event, we look forward to taking care of you. Talking of wildlife, a sister lodge to Chengeta is Pamuzinda Game Lodge, which also straddles the industry like a giant elephant.Just like Chengeta, Pamuzinda is also derived from another Shona word, and this time it means, home, or where someone is based and anchored.It is known for its indigenous trees and a tropical garden, hideaway, uninterrupted privacy and of these which occupy a 7 500-acre piece of land comprise of some of the best of flora and fauna in Zimbabwe.These include game such as buffalo, leopard, lion and numerous bird species.As the sun sets and the violet dusk turns into darkness, the sound of a animals in the nearby will remind you how close you are to the wilderness.You will experience a new set of senses or maybe rediscover lost ones when the scents of the bush draw closer as the wind stills.You can definitely tell that a stay at Pamuzinda is indeed a journey of the senses. Pamuzinda Safari Lodge is a perfect spot for a romantic weekend getaway. Situated on the banks of the Serui River, the classy lodge and friendly staff will ensure you get a luxurious stay. Surrounded by 13 000 acres of untouched bush and savannah, the lodges lie in the middle of the wilderness. This ensures both privacy and a plethora of animals to encounter on your safari, gushes Forgive Marimbita, a local traveller.Both lodges offer bookings for weddings and conferences.Pamuzinda has hosted a wedding that made news in many countries around the world, that of Corey and Lynnette Perkins a few years back.As expected of such a place, splendid food is the order of the day in addition to interaction with elephants and lions.Chengeta sleeps 37 guests and has 16 en-suite rooms while Pamuzinda sleeps 34 guests and has 12 en-suites.