MANCHESTER. &#8211; Pep Guardiola says he is not immune from the sack at Manchester City, but will not change his football philosophy simply to get results. Guardiola s surprising admission comes as he grapples with the first real crisis of his glittering managerial career.Manchester City faced Watford at the Etihad Stadium last night having recorded only four wins from their last 15 games, keeping one clean sheet and sliding from first to fourth in the English Premier League, seven points behind Chelsea, amid apparent confusion among his players about positions and formations.And all that has followed a 10-game winning run at the start of the season when it looked like City might sweep all before them.Having waited four years to bring the former Barcelona and Bayern Munich boss to lead their long-term project to be the biggest club in the world, City s Abu Dhabi heirarchy are certainly not going to ditch him in a hurry.But for all his success in Spain and Germany and his friends in high places at City &#8211; notably chief executive Ferran Sorriano and sporting director Txiki Begiristain &#8211; Guardiola is not complacent and says he is not un-sackable.He admits he needs to turn round City s fortunes and quickly if he is to survive. Football does not exist as a long-term project, Pep Guardiola said. You have to win immediately and if you don t win, you are in trouble. Of course the club has to prepare in the long term, but the coaches, the managers, they have to win, or something is going to happen. Then another guy has to be in charge because you have to win. I have never been sacked and it s the first time in my life I don t win for so long. Next season will be better, two years will be better, but when I came here I knew I had to win immediately. I feel like they [the owners] trust me but the reality is that you have to win. Our position depends on the results. It is what it is. It is unfair in many cases, but you know in the big companies and the big businesses in the world, if something doesn t work you have to find a solution. Normally the guy who has to go is the guy who has to help the players reach the best level. Guardiola says he is a fighter and is convinced he will get City back on track but will not change his possession-based philosophy for a more pragmatic approach. No, no way, he added. We are going to play the way I feel, even if it means making mistakes. But I cannot do something I don t believe in. We have to improve what I believe in, not change it. The last month I have to accept the results have not gone well. We didn t win the last four home League games. And we scored only four goals in those games. I have to accept we didn t do well. But when it doesn t work, you have to be strong. You have to minimise mistakes to win games. I believe in the way I like to play, so I m sorry, I can t do that [change]. Watford manager Walter Mazzarri backed Guardiola and admitted he has never taught one of his players how to tackle.Guardiola s claim he is not a coach for the tackles after City s humiliating defeat at Leicester on Saturday has turned the spotlight on the Spaniard s inconsistent start to life in the Premier League.And Mazzarri said: You don t train a player to tackle. It s something that is natural with a player. I ve never trained a player to tackle. The important thing is it s all done within the rules of the game going for the ball. In a team you need the equilibrium and need good strikers and defenders that manage to do both things at the same time. The manager needs to value his defenders and strikers to make them work together. This is the main thing. Meanwhile, City have been fined 35 000 and Chelsea 100 000 for failing to control their players during a League encounter on December 3.City striker Sergio Aguero s reckless tackle on Chelsea defender David Luiz in stoppage time sparked a melee at the Etihad Stadium, with players and coaching staff from both teams involved in ugly scenes. Aguero and team-mate Fernandinho were sent off and are serving four and three-game bans respectively. &#8211; The Daily Express.