Grace Chingoma Senior Sport Reporter&#8212;DYNAMOS acting secretary-general Webster Marechera says the Glamour Boys have not been spared by the harsh economic climate prevailing in the country and there is nothing much they can do to tie down players at the club. The Harare giants are facing a player exodus following the expiry of contracts for half-a-dozen key players.The contracts of skipper Stephen Alimenda, Ocean Mushure, goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva, Masimba Mambare, Godknows Murwira, Kudzanai Nyakasaka as well as young Brett Amidu end on December 31.The club is yet to open negotiations with any of the players as the Harare giants are hamstrung by financial challenges.Without a sponsor to bankroll their recruitment drive, it has not been easy for the Glamour Boys on the transfer market as they have struggled to compete against teams backed by companies such as FC Platinum, Ngezi Platinum, ZPC Kariba and Triangle.On Monday, FC Platinum made a huge statement of intent when they landed the signature of talented winger Talent Chawapiwa following the expiry of his contract with ZPC Kariba for a cool $24 000 for three years.Marechera said they don t have any apologies since the financial problems they are experiencing are prevalent in many sectors in the country. We are a community team and the economy is bad, he said. So we are in the same predicament. We have a number of players contracts expiring but we have assured them, and some of them are willing to wait while we sort our finances. They want to play for the club next season. But we will not, at the same time, stand in any player s way should something come up. Marechera added they had set themselves realistic targets in the transfer window. We are looking at promoting juniors. We have already promoted about four players from our juniors structures and they will be playing in the senior team. We haven t looked at signing players from other clubs at the moment, said Marechera.He said they had received assurance from some of their players that they will stay. The players have assured us by word of mouth that they want to stay at the club. Some of these stories that our players are leaving are just media reports, they are still here and still want to play for the club next year. So, as the executive, we are busy looking for sponsorship from some companies who can support us in this venture of retaining players. It is not a Dynamos problem alone but every club is facing financial challenges, he said.Marechera said the club was yet to decide on the way forward in terms of their coaching staff, as they were still seized with the issue of player contracts.The technical team is headed by Lloyd Mutasa and his assistants are Gift Umbro Muzadzi and Murape Murape and they are still in charge at DeMbare.Marechera said they don t want to repeat the mistake they made when they recruited Portuguese clown Paulo Jorge Silva at the start of the season. We are yet to sit down with the coaches but we usually have meetings with the board of directors and we have made it clear that we don t want to repeat the mistake we made with Silva, said Marechera. That derailed our campaign and it was the turning point in us not winning the league this year. When the time is ready, we will deliberate on that ,but for now we would rather focus on the players contracts. Meanwhile, the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) have confirmed receipt of the PSL appeal in their dispute with ZIFA.CAS, who are based in Switzerland, advised the PSL through their lawyers in Harare and the UK that their appeal has been noted and is now being dealt with.The PSL want protection from ZIFA after a number of their leading officials were suspended following a relegation/promotion play-off dispute.