HIGH-FLYING WARRIOR . . . Mamelodi Sundowns forward Khama Billiat is tackled by Atsutaka Nakamura of Kashima Antlers during the FIFA World Cup quarter-final match at Suita City Football Stadium in Suita, Japan, yesterday which the African champions lost 0-2 Getty ImagesEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international footballer Khama Billiat says working with legendary Warrior Peter Ndlovu at Mamelodi Sundowns has been a dream come true for him and credits the former Coventry City forward for making a huge impact in his career. The 26-year-old midfielder made history yesterday when he became the first Zimbabwean footballer to play at the FIFA Club World Cup after he featured in Sundowns 0-2 defeat at the hands of Japanese champions Kashima Antlers in a quarter-final showdown in Osaka.Second half goals from Yasushi Endo and Mu Kanazaki inspired the Japanese champions to a semi-final battle against South American champions Atletico Nacional.Sundowns will now have to battle for the classification slots.Billiat, who was voted the Zimbabwe Footballer of the Year for 2016 by journalists on The Herald s Sports Desk ahead of his Warriors teammates Costa Nhamoinesu and Knowledge Musona, got the better of Gen Shoji after seven minutes, cut inside and played in striker Leonardo Castro.But the Colombian was unable to make a clean connection.The Zimbabwean went close again moments later for the CAF Champions League winners, forcing Hitoshi Sogahata to make a stretching save after another surging run, before Percy Tau relentlessly charged through the middle of the park and forced Sogahata to make a strong one-handed stop.Sundowns were dominant in the first half but they could not convert their dominance into goals.They were made to pay for that in the second half with the Japanese side scoring twice to win the match. It was a very good game. A game of two halves. I m disappointed with the result but I m not disappointed about the performance, Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane told the official FIFA website. But we should have killed the game in the first half. We didn t finish our chances. We showed a little bit of inexperience in the match, particularly in the final third. We have a little bit of work to do. We need to come back and fight again. We were a little out-muscled and we didn t expect a physical team. Otherwise, I would have played the team differently. But we played well. I enjoyed the game, the flow, the speed, the passing, the technique. There s a few lessons we can take. Billiat was pulled out in the 79th minute and replaced by Sifiso Vilakazi.But he had already made his mark as the first Zimbabwean to play at this level of the game.It has been an incredible story for Billiat who grew up in Mufakose watching his idol Peter Ndlovu mesmerise defenders in the Warriors colours and in England where he starred for Coventry City, Birmingham and Sheffield United.Billiat has had a lot to learn from Ndlovu, whom he regards as his mentor. It s a privilege to be able to work with him, I never dreamt that this might happen. I grew up seeing him play, he used to make the whole country proud with everything he achieved, Billiat told the official FIFA website. It s a blessing to be able to spend time with him. We talk a lot and he gives me plenty of advice. The midfielder is bracing up for tough challenges at next year s Africa Cup of Nations where Zimbabwe are in Group B alongside continental heavyweights Senegal, Algeria and Tunisia.The Warriors are expected to start camp on December 22 and four days later they will play African champions Cote d Ivoire in one of the final preparatory matches.The Warriors have also short-listed international friendlies with Mali, Libya and Cameroon before leaving for the finals in Gabon from January 14 to February 5 next year.They may also play the hosts before the kick-off of the tournament.Billiat played a crucial role during the qualifiers where he was joint top goal scorer on three goals with his friend Musona who also had a stint in South Africa at Kaizer Chiefs before relocating to Germany and then Belgium.But a move to a bigger league in Europe has always eluded Billiat.He had been linked with clubs in France and England but nothing has materialised despite a growing feeling that he is now ripe for the big stage.A long-time admirer of ex-Brazil magician Ronaldinho, Billiat is not short of ambition and feels Japan 2016 could help put him in the shop window. I d love to play in Europe, he said. I follow Borussia Dortmund and Atletico de Madrid, so it s been fantastic to get that far one day. But to do that I need to work every day to get better, then better again, then even better! Billiat has played a key role in Sundowns incredible journey to the FIFA Club World Cup Japan 2016, continuing a level of performance that has made him one of the stand-out midfielders in South African football in recent seasons. We re really thrilled to have got this far. This is a huge competition and it ll be very important to our careers. It s so good to have the opportunity to take on the world s best. Our dream is to reach the final. But, above all else, we want to compete with the best, show what we re capable of and see how far we can go, said Billiat.He said Sundowns thrive on unity. I d say that togetherness is our main strength. We re like a family, we understand each other well and we don t have any problems or cliques. We all fight together for us all to be successful, to get better every day. 