Orpah leavingBishop B. Manjoro Dunamis&#8212;Today I have a specific word for women. God has a purpose with women -faith women. You see a person of faith is driven by purpose. Master this key and your year will end differently, O hallelujah! And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law; but Ruth clave unto her. (15) And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people, and unto her gods: return thou after thy sister-in-law. (16) And Ruth said, Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God: (17) Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part thee and me (Ruth 1:14-17).Here is the powerful story of Ruth, a woman of faith! You see this woman there was no way she was going to be in the genealogy of Jesus. It is your duty to find out your purpose. Why am I here? Why has God put me here? Every person on earth has a purpose. This lady Ruth, a Gentile God had a purpose for her. Some things happen to some people not because they must happen but because God wants someone to get into their purpose. O hallelujah!When they went into Moab the father died. The sons also died. Later she heard things are now well in Israel and was about to go back and said goodbye to her daughter in laws. She said I m too old, go back to your people. Orpah was not a bad person but she had no purpose in Israel.Ruth had a purpose! Ruth stood her ground and said don t persuade me I will not leave you! (See graphic)Faith people speak things that are not as though they are. They see in the spirit and begin to declare what they see. How can Jews be your people Ruth? I m seeing destiny. I m seeing tomorrow! Faith people don t depend on the history, they don t depend on now, they see tomorrow. When you walk by faith there are sometimes that you do things that natural people will call foolish. When Noah was building the ark people were laughing and talking;This old men is crazy. What they didn t know is that rain was coming. When the door was closed by God himself now foolishness became wisdom.When you walk by faith you do things that cause people to laugh at you. They began to say he took lions and all the animals we don t know how he is going to survive in that ark.When you are a woman of faith don t care if they laugh. Stand on the word of God. Tell yourself this is my day, this is my hour! When the rain began to fall they then began to say ah maybe what the old men was saying about the rain is true. But it was too late.There is no craziness when you walk by faith. David when he went to fight Goliath they said this boy is crazy. But when he says yes, who can say no? When he says it s yours who can say it s not yours? Today is your day; tell yourself no giant can stand my way. 2016 is still my year! What people call foolishness is the wisdom of God! This is a message for all faith women out there, in cities or rural places, employed or unemployed, married or single &#8211; you can do the impossible! O hallelujah!If you are a faith woman you don t see now you see tomorrow. You were born to be a winner in life and not a failure! You were born to rule. Moabites were not counted as people.But she said your people will be my people your God will be my God. People were laughing yet this woman was already stepping into the genealogy of Jesus Christ.Some people are going to miss some things because they are somewhere and God is elsewhere. Come from where you are and be where God is! It s a new thing, God is doing a new thing. Ruth began to see what was beyond. Where you lodge I m going to lodge. Don t worry about today, today is already gone. There is an anointing touching before this year winds up. Your story cannot end like this; joy is coming your way, O hallelujah!For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27