Members of the ZNA marching at Rudhaka StadiumSamantha Chigogo Herald Correspondent &#8212; Zimbabwean soldiers are a cut above the rest as they continue upholding high standards of discipline when protecting national integrity, a top army official said recently. Colonel Luckmore Mukurazhizha said this at a graduation ceremony of 105 soldiers, who were awarded certificates after completing a 14-week course on general squad drill and small arms course at 2 Presidential Guard Battalion in Harare. I want to remind you that Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) has remained a disciplined force despite passive war attempts by the West, she said. This discipline is enhanced by continuous training activities within formations such as the general squad drill and small arms course. Col Mukurazhizha hailed the participants for remaining resilient throughout the duration of the course. Today marks the end of a mentally and physically demanding course and there were a host of logistical challenges that you were subjected to during your course, some of which were compounded by illegal economic sanctions imposed on our country by the British and their Western allies, whose main agenda is that of effecting regime change, she said. I would like to congratulate you all for having been resilient in supporting the goals of the organisation under these harsh economic conditions. Col Mukurazhizha said efforts were being made to correct anomalies in the Presidential Guard and the Zimbabwe National Army at large. You will agree with me that the discipline acquired and the knowledge of the history of our country imparted to you prepared you for the defence of our hard won independence, Col Mukurazhizha said. All the sleepless nights you have endured were not punishment, but deliberately created to mould you into efficient soldiers. There were 15 female soldiers among the 105 who completed the course, who rose above gender stereotypes by managing to withstand the physical and mental demands of the drills. In line with the ZNA s policy of decentralising training to formations, your course in which you are graduating today, is the 22nd to be successfully hosted here by the Presidential Guard Brigade, Col Mukurazhizha said. The objectives of the course were to enable you to efficiently drill a squad during training and in battle and achieve levels one to three of training a battle shot. The course, which also formed the basis upon which soldiers were promoted, started with 108 students, who were drawn from all ZNA formations.