Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter&#8212; CHITUNGWIZA Municipality has resolved to regularise over 4 000 illegal stands parcelled out by land barons as a way of generating revenue for the cash-strapped council. Indications are that council requires about $1,5 million for the exercise.Recent council minutes show that the city fathers were influenced by the desire to generate revenue when they resolved to regularise the stands. The stands are illegal in that some were built on wetlands, on top of drainage systems and below Zesa power lines.Leading the chaotic construction of the houses was Chitungwiza businessman and former councillor Fredrick Mabamba.In its deliberation, council reckoned it could benefit from regularisation of the illegality. It decided against demolitions. The motion was moved by Ward 25 councillor Mr Simbiso Mhike (Zanu-PF), before it was adopted by full council.Chitungwiza Town Clerk Mr George Makunde confirmed the development, saying council would be thorough in assessing the stands before regularising. That is the direction council is taking considering what the Constitution provides for in terms of one s right to shelter. It is not a process but an event, said Mr Makunde.In an interview this week, Cllr Mhike, who also sits on the Health Committee, said tough conditions had been imposed on residence before their properties could be regularised. He said council considered its desire to generate revenue.Clr Mhike said council was surviving from hand to mouth, hence adoption of the resolution. We felt as council that it was progressive for us to regularise them than demolishing. There would be fines ranging between $1 500 and $2 000 and one should clear council dues before we can regularise a stand, said Clr Mhike.He said council would engage Environmental Management Agency for those that built on wetlands while Zesa would be roped in for those who built below power lines before they could regularise the stands.Clr Mhike said his ward was the worst affected by illegal parcelling of stands. On those houses built on drainage system, we have taken a detour or diverted watercourse to avoid the houses. The houses would otherwise collapse if we do not do that because in some cases water flow would partly immerse the houses because they interfered with its flow. We have pooled resources such as cement, pipes among other items for the fulfilment of that objective of diverting water flow, said Clr Mhike.He estimated the exercise could cost council up to $1,5 million. Some of the money would include inspection of the houses by Zesa and EMA.