Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter&#8212;THEY may not have had the best of preparations ahead of the Africa Union Sports Council Region Five Under-20 Youth Games but Team Zimbabwe are proving to be a force to reckon with at the ongoing competition in Luanda, Angola. Zimbabwe were on Tuesday occupying the second spot on the medals table with 40 medals. South Africa were leading with more gold medals than Zimbabwe.Athletics was the biggest contributor having amassed more than 30 medals as the Games entered day five on Tuesday including nine gold. Most of them came from athletics for the visually impaired.The likes of Shepherd Patrick claimed gold in T13 400m and 800m. Moment Bhebhe, Liberty Mazino, Libetra Shoko and Tafadzwa Munyoro also had a good day on the track clinching gold as well.Chengetai Mapaya came tops in triple jump while the pair of James Mutenje and Titus Nyati got gold in javelin and steeple chase respectively.National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director in charge of junior development, Silas Muringani hailed the team for their spirited fight. I think I am a bit surprised by the team s performance because I never expected them to do that because of the preparations that were not up to what we expected. Nevertheless we want to applaud the team, actually the coaches are doing a good job to motivate the athletes despite the poor preparations. But it s not a big surprise considering that we have Mapaya who is actually a regional champion in triple jump. He has even shown that he is not a regional champion in triple jump only but also in long jump where he also got a gold medal. I am sure the athletes are also psyched up to perform better and they have set goals which they want to achieve and attain. I am sure with the likes of youngsters like Alfred Chawonza coming in for the 800m, we are in for some surprises as well, Muringani said.Muringani paid tribute to athletes competing in athletics for the visually impaired for their remarkable performance. I want to thank the visually impaired athletes. I think they had more exposure and most of them were on the long list for the Olympics although they failed to qualify. If you look most of the gold medals are coming in from the visually impaired section. That s actually a plus for the team. But I think with the preparations they had for the Olympics they just took it a little further to the Region Five Games, so that s a plus for the team, said Muringani.The tennis the team made up of Mehluli Sibanda, Ngonidzashe Makambwa, Rufaro Chirewa and Keren Muswere has also been doing well. They have so far claimed four medals one gold and three bronze.The girls basketball team lost to Angola 32-69. They are the only two countries competing in basketball.Ten countries are taking part in the Games Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe are fielding athletes in athletics, athletics for the visually impaired, basketball girls, football boys and girls, gymnastics boys, judo, netball, swimming and tennis.