Lamont ChitepoTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter&#8212;United Kingdom-based musician Lamont Chitepo is in the country for charity work and gigs. The award-winning artiste who flew in last week has to date, staged two gigs at City Sports Bar and Jazz 24 /7 with several other artistes including rising contemporary musician Andy Muridzo. Lamont has pencilled in a few more gigs before returning to the UK on January 2.The tour, running under the theme Meet the fans and share some love , is a bid not only to promote his music but also take part in corporate social responsibility.Lamont is set to share the stage with Tendai Dembo, Minister Mahendere, Leonard Zhakata and Kudzi Nyakudya at a fund-raising event to be held over the weekend. I am glad to be participating at this upcoming event which is aimed at raising funds to build an orphanage. I urge people to come in their numbers to support this initiative, he said.In an interview the musician said he was happy with the tour and all was going according to plan. I have seen that Zimbabwe is developing when it comes to music. I have already staged some shows and was surprised with the overwhelming response from fans. My music is universal and I am pleased that it is receiving airplay on radio stations too, he said.The Maiwe hit-maker said he saw the need to come and meet the fans who support him. It took me three months planning the tour with my team. I would say that my music is very popular in the diaspora community more than anywhere else and people in the diaspora have been our main support. I have been moving around different parts of Zimbabwe promoting my music hence lucky fans walked away with autographed CDs and some hampers, he said.On Christmas Day, he distributed stationery and sweets to lucky children who visited Radio Zimbabwe.The pint-sized musician said he was also using the opportunity to market his two new songs. I have new two new songs Shanje and Maoko Mudenga , whose videos are now on YouTube. I have been playing them at all the shows and charity work that I have been doing, he said.Meanwhile, the song Maiwe has been doing well on MTV Base, Channel O, Zambezi Magic and Trace African platforms.