Lloyd Gumbo Senior Reporter&#8212;OUTGOING Brazilian ambassador Marcia Maro da Silva yesterday paid a courtesy call on Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa and assured Zimbabwe that relations between the two countries will continue to grow across all sectors. Brazil has given Zimbabwe technical support in agriculture through the More Food for Africa programme in the past few years.Speaking to the media after a closed-door meeting with Vice President Mnangagwa, Ambassador da Silva said her country was committed to continue supporting Zimbabwe. We talked about our relationship, how it grew in the last five years, she said. We talked about the possibilities of further cooperation and strengthening our bilateral relationship, mainly in the area of agriculture and infrastructure. We think there is a lot of business opportunities for Brazilian companies in Zimbabwe. As soon as we have projects from Zim-Asset, we could try to take them to Brazil to a road show and show Brazilian business people about the opportunities that you have here. The ambassador said her country s support to Harare was a success story expected to help the country achieve food self-sustenance despite the negative effects of climate change. If you have mechanisation, you do not depend on the climate. Climate change is there to stay. We need mechanisation and we proved through this programme that, once you have that in place, you increase productivity and people are not vulnerable to climate conditions. I think the programme has helped people to move in the same direction. Instead of using the resources to buy food, to buy grains, let us use the resources to have mechanisations and give technical support to people on the ground. You will be able to produce and to be self-sufficient again. That is the most positive thing that we see from the programme. It inspired people. Ambassador da Silva said while Zimbabwe faced economic hardships, the future looked bright though there was need for investment in infrastructure. The economy now is in a very difficult situation but as soon as you overcome that, you have to invest in infrastructure, in agriculture, in technology, in a society of knowledge. There are a lot of possibilities for Brazil to cooperate with Zimbabwe. Africa is a priority to Brazil. We have invested in most of the countries and there is no reason for Zimbabwe to be an exception, she said.