2016 Dream Star winner Tafara Dondo (right) poses for a picture with last year s winner Probeatz at the HICCSophia Chese and Tawanda Matanhire Beat Boxer Tafara Dondo won this year`s edition of Dream Star Talent search show at the grand finale edition held at the Harare International Conference Centre (HICC) on Saturday. He becomes the second beat boxer to hit the jackpot in the talent search show.A musical band by the name Those Guys Vacho scooped the second prize and walked away $1 500 richer while another Marondera musician Prince Silas scooped the third prize and pocketed $750.The Marondera-based young man who scooped the big prize of $3 000 expressed his excitement saying he did not expect to win. This honestly came as a shock to me because I thought there were better competitors. I did not expect to win the first prize because last year a beat boxer won. I believe God has a plan for everyone. He did not make me win last year to give me a chance to win this year and I am glad I did not win last year, he said.The excited Tafara said he was optimistic that beat boxing will grow next year. Beat boxing is the imitation of the sounds of a drum machine with the voice. Beat boxing is going to grow next year and I can assure you that next year Dream Star 2017 there will be more than 10 beat boxers competing for the big prize, he said.Tafara gave a sterling performance that impressed the judges. Last year s winner Probeatz who was also among the performers hailed the young man saying he was really determined to take beat boxing to another level. Thumbs up to Tafara, I am so excited that another beat boxer has won the crown, it shows beat boxing is going somewhere. I will continue supporting it, he said.Dream Star top 10 finalists were each awarded a trip to China, accolades and a certificate.This year`s edition of Dream Star was better than the previous edition as the participants went through various training programmes in boot camp that gave birth to a better breed of competitors.The stage work and display also showed the organisers did their homework because it was classy.Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe, His Excellency, Juang Ping said he was happy with the effort by the Chinese community in the country to improve the relationship between Zimbabwe and China. I am very happy for the Chinese community who are spearheading initiatives such as Dream Star to improve relations between Zimbabwe and China. It is good for our people to exchange cultures and work as brothers and sisters, he said.He thanked several organisations that included SINO Zimbabwe for sponsoring the competition saying the talent search show will continue despite the prevailing economic conditions.The event was attended by Zambian Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Mwelwa Ng ono Chibesakunda and other Government officials.