Hardlife ZvirekwiPaul Mundandi and Takudzwa Chitsiga &#8212; CASTLE Soccer Star of the Year and CAPS United defender Hardlife Zvirekwi and Swedish-based striker Tino Kadewere have praised the Warriors home-based contingent for their battling qualities during their international friendly against Cote d Ivoire in Abidjan on Boxing Day. As has become the norm, Zvirekwi captained the Warriors in that encounter which finished goalless with the visitors having to thank goalkeeper Donavan Benard for saving a late penalty to ensure a clean sheet.Kadewere was the only foreign-based professional in that squad.Zvirekwi and the rest of the squad that had travelled to Abidjan returned home on Thursday and headed to a city hotel to join 17 of their teammates, mainly the foreign legion who had got into camp on Wednesday to step up preparations for the African Cup of Nations in Gabon next month.The Warriors right-back said he was impressed with the way their hastily assembled side acquitted themselves in Abidjan against the Elephants who also had the bulk of their homegrown talent in the game.Zvirekwi said he would always feel honoured to be tasked to lead the Warriors in any assignment and reckoned that the manner in which they applied themselves against the Ivorians had shown that we are on the right track . It was a very big honour for me to captain the Zimbabwe national team against a big country in football like Cote d Ivoire. I thank the coaches and the whole team for having faith in me and for the brilliant show We did our best as Zimbabwe to hold Cote d Ivoire and it was not because of individuals, but it was all teamwork. Playing a team which is highly ranked and has skilful players was not easy, but we managed to hold them and I feel we did our best Our national team is on the right track and we need to do more in the next week. Most of the players were on off season, but they managed to shrug off the rust and delivered. We need to keep on working hard in the next week for us to be fit and all we are hoping for is putting up a good show in Gabon We must go to the tournament and leave a mark that most countries will always remember. We have the faith in everyone who was called for camp and we have the faith in our technical team, said Zvirekwi.Zvirekwi is the only local in-field player who has managed to hold out a regular place in Callisto Pasuwa s team.Cote d Ivoire had about six foreign-based players who are reportedly on the fringes of selection and were being assessed ahead of the Nations Cup.Kadewere revealed that he was impressed by this experience after being handed his first start with the senior side.The former Harare City man relished the trip to West Africa and being given a run out had given him more motivation to work hard. I enjoyed every moment the team played well and as a unit we hope to continue doing well. It was difficult to face Cote d Ivoire especially in their backyard, the temperatures are humid, but we managed to contain them.They had some of their foreign-based players, but we showed character and managed to come up with a positive result. Playing among the locals is a great honour to me and it increases my chances of making an impact. We had a good game although they came at us in the first half, but we managed to contain them, Kadewere said.Kadewere said they were ready to handle the congested programme of friendly matches ahead of the tournament. We are used to play many games and it actually keeps us physically fit. There are a lot of good local players and we look forward to continue with good preparations ahead of the Nations Cup in Gabon .Kadewere who plies his trade in Sweden with First Division side Djurg rdens IF could gatecrash into the final 23 despite having missed out on the qualification race.The former Prince Edward student has represented Zimbabwe at the Under-17, Under-20 and Under-23 levels.