Chief CharumbiraNyemudzai Kakore: Herald CorrespondentMembers of Parliament commended the State of the Nation Address delivered by President Mugabe at Parliament yesterday saying it captured the socio economic situation prevailing in the country and reflected efforts Government was taking to address the challenges. Addressing a joint sitting of both the National Assembly and Senate, President Mugabe outlined several measures Government was taking to promote local content requirements across all sectors consistent with its economic blue print Zim-Asset and the Ten Point Plan.Chiefs Council President Chief Fortune Charumbira, said traditional leaders were happy with the agricultural inputs being given to the rural populace by Government. He, however, said there was need to increase the quantities of the supplies so that communal farmers planted on time. The Presidential input scheme is coming in rural areas across the country. Our view as traditional leaders is that the quantities need to be increased so as to target a bigger population, said Chief Charumbira.He said Government s decision to provide inputs was in line with the thrust of growth with equity as it sought to distribute wealth equitably.On gender based violence, Chief Charumbira said while the law was one instrument to curb the scourge, there was need to establish the root cause and deal with it. We have several laws that deal with the gender based violence but the problem continues to rise. What it means is that the law alone is not enough, said Chief Charumbira.Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development parliamentary portfolio committee chairperson Cde Beatrice Nyamupinga (Zanu-PF), said she was elated by President s position on women empowerment. I was happy with the President s stance on the empowerment of women as this was emphasised twice in the speech. This shows that he has a soft spot for women especially when he called for funds to be made available for the women bank which will fund women projects, she said. SONA also illustrated the President s position on gender based violence in that he has respect for women, mothers and daughters of this country. We want to commend him for that as it reveals he is in sync with women s plight and campaigns on the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence.Zanu-PF Chief Whip Cde Lovemore Matuke, said the President had touched on the nerve centre of the country s economy. President Mugabe touched on crucial areas that will spearhead the economic development of our country. For instance, on Command Agriculture, funds that were used to import maize will be channelled to other projects as the programme aims at food security. Employment creation will be achieved as farmers will concentrate more on boosting yields by hiring enough labour instead of worrying on farming inputs that were made available by Government, said Cde Matuke who is also Gutu Central MP.Cde Matuke said it was now the duty of the legislators to talk about gender based violence in their respective constituencies so that the President s vision can be achieved.Mutasa South MP Cde Irene Zindi (Zanu-PF) said SONA gave policy guidance on state entities on Government s economic trajectory. State companies play a major role in economic development and the President was elaborate on that, she said.A Harare man, Mr Thomas Chaukafa, said the President had the country at heart, but lacked support from some of his troops. The President is always clear on his vision, the direction and the path he needs the country to take but I have challenges with some of his troops. They always sleep on the wheel and poor results are produced at the end of the day, he said.MDC-T chief whip Mr Innocent Gonese, however, criticised the speech but did not proffer solutions on what ought to be done.