All City Parking marshals are equipped with EcoCash Ta! devices and no pin code is required for transactions of $3,00 and belowTinashe Makichi Motoring&#8212;Parking in Harare has been made easy by the introduction of alternative payment system at a time when the economy in general is facing cash constraints. Cash shortages in Zimbabwe have continued to be an issue where some banks have reduced monthly withdrawal limits for individuals to $150 per week while companies are now allowed weekly withdrawals of up to $500 per week.Such a situation has been a challenge to all the people including motorists being the hardest hit where they are supposed to pay cash for their parking or paying fines to police.Some motorists could not afford to pay for their parking fees due to lack of cash, exposing one to a higher risk of getting clamped or having their vehicles impounded.In another first, Econet Wireless through its innovative mobile payment solution EcoCash partnered with Harare City Council s parking unit, City Parking to enable Ecocash customers pay for parking services via EcoCash.The development means all City Parking marshals within the Harare Central Business District now accept EcoCash payments for car parking services.City Parking holds the largest share of parking bays in Harare CBD including Julius Nyerere, Samora Machel and Parklane Parkades. We are humbled and thankful to City Parking (Pvt) Ltd for this deal that we have entered into. We realise the need to ensure that day-to-day micro-transactions are formalised as we move to the next level of the financial inclusion life-cycle. As part of Econet s efforts to promote a cashless society in our country, we would like to bring to our customers the convenience, security, affordability and acceptability of mobile money payments to buy literally everything, from supermarkets, service stations, flea markets, fruit and vegetable informal markets, Econet Wireless chief executive Douglas Mboweni.The use of mobile payment systems on parking are a welcome development which comes at the right time when the country is facing acute cash challenges. There is no longer need for our customers to carry cash for car parking services. Instead of going through the process of dialling *151#, all City Parking marshals have been equipped with EcoCash Ta! devices. EcoCash Ta! allows our customers to tap specially coded stickers linked to their EcoCash wallets against City Parking marshals enabled micro point-of-sale devices. The value of the transaction will be automatically and instantly deducted from the customer s EcoCash account, said EcoCash general manager Natalie Jabangwe-Morris. To City Parking marshals and our customers alike, no more need to worry about security of carrying cash and looking for change as all their cash is safe in their devices and wallets respectively, she said.Mrs Morris said the payment process is efficient and fast with no PIN required from customers when paying for goods and services of up to $3.Mr Nobert Mapfumo a motorist welcomed the development saying cash challenges have had an effect to everyone.He said the introduction of EcoCash as a parking payment system is one of the things which other telecom companies must emulate to make life easier for the Zimbabwe citizenry.