Flora Teckie A Baha i Perspective&#8212;As a New Year approaches, we send messages wishing each other peace and prosperity. What do these words imply? Are we getting any closer in terms of living in a peaceful and prosperous world? In our inter-dependent world, can one family, one neighbourhood, one city, one country have peace and prosperity, while others are deprived of these basic rights?According to the Bah Writings, unless unity is attained a unity that embraces and honours the full diversity of humankind true peace and prosperity will remain out of reach.Bah u ll h says: The well-being of mankind, its peace and security, are unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly established .In every living organism, there is a need for the complete harmony of many diversely-functioning parts.No advanced living organism could consist of and function with identical cells and organs.This diversity of form and function is absolutely necessary for the life of any complex, well-developed organic entity.For example, the perfect functioning of the human body is due to the unity of diverse cells and organs. In the same way the well-being and well functioning of body of mankind is dependent on unity of its diverse elements of all races, nationalities, religions and ethnic backgrounds.We belong to one human family.In order to achieve peace and prosperity at a global level, we need to accept that we are one human species. Although we differ from one another physically and emotionally, and have different talents and capacities, we all belong to the same human family.We need to love humanity and not allow our differences become a cause of division and dispute.The Bah Scriptures prescribe: Love ye all religions and all races with a love that is true and sincere and show that love through deeds and not through the tongue; for the latter hath no importance, as the majority of men are, in speech, well-wishers, while action is the best and Do not allow difference of opinion, or diversity of thought to separate you from your fellow-men, or to be the cause of dispute, hatred and strife in your hearts. Rather, search diligently for the truth and make all men your friends .Belief in the oneness of humanity provides both a unifying vision and the foundation for a new system of values.Only when we, as individuals, see ourselves as members of one human family, sharing one common global homeland, will we be able to commit ourselves to the far-reaching changes, on both individual and collective levels, which an increasingly interdependent and rapidly changing world necessitates.Acceptance of the oneness of humankind is not to undermine national autonomy or suppress cultural and intellectual diversity.Rather, it is a call for a wider loyalty and subordination of national impulses and interests to the imperative needs of a unified world. Achievement of global peace requires fundamental changes in our behaviour and by overcoming any lingering prejudices that we may, consciously or unconsciously, harbour. We need to strive to bring our thoughts and action in line with our belief in oneness of mankind. When a thought of war comes, oppose it by a stronger thought of peace. A thought of hatred must be destroyed by a more powerful thought of love, say the Bah Writings.What is true prosperity?In order for humanity to prosper and be happy, the material and the spiritual aspects of our lives should advance together.Prosperity, in its fullest sense, can only be achieved through combination of spiritual and material well-being. It can be attained when material and spiritual civilisation advance together.As stated in the Bah Writings: Material civilisation is like unto the lamp, while spiritual civilisation is the light in that lamp. If the material and spiritual civilisation become united, then we will have the light and the lamp together, and the outcome will be perfect. For material civilisation is like unto a beautiful body, and spiritual civilisation is like unto the spirit of life. If that wondrous spirit of life enters this beautiful body, the body will become a channel for the distribution and development of the perfections of humanity .Human nature, according to the world s great religions, has two sides: the material side and the spiritual side. Our spiritual side exhibits attributes such as truthfulness, courtesy, generosity, compassion, justice, love, and trustworthiness, which are essential for individual and social transformation.The willingness to sacrifice our immediate self-interest because of higher goals is one of the signs of our spiritual side. On the other hand, we have legitimate physical needs that cry for satisfaction: food, shelter, companionship, and protection from threatening forces.However, it is important that the material and the spiritual aspects of our lives advance together in order for humanity to prosper and be happy. As stated in the Bah Writings: . . . we must thank God that He has created for us both material blessings and spiritual bestowals. He has given us material gifts and spiritual graces, outer sight to view the lights of the sun and inner vision by which we may perceive the glory of God .Reinforcing material achievements with spiritual perfectionsLasting Joy and establishing of peace and prosperity result from material achievements reinforced by spiritual perfections and service to the common good. Therefore, the same way as we improve and transform our material surroundings for the new year, we also need to focus on spiritual transformation and the development of our spiritual capacities.As the Bah Writings state: . . . the world of spirit needs new life, the world of mind necessitates new animus and development, the world of souls a new bounty, the world of morality a reformation, the world of divine effulgence ever new bestowals . . . thoughts must be lofty and ideals uplifted in order that the world of humanity may become assisted in new conditions of reform. When this reformation affects every degree, then will come the very Day of the Lord of which all the prophets have spoken. That is the Day wherein the whole world will be regenerated .In the Bah s view, spiritual transformation is the basis for lasting improvements in our lives and central in our approach to social change.There are spiritual principles through which solutions can be found for global problem.Decency and integrity of individual and collective conduct; the solution of problems through the application of spiritual principles; the practice of consultation in a spirit of unity; and the belief in the oneness of humanity, for example. The profound and far-reaching changes, the unity and unprecedented cooperation according to the Bah International Community, will only be possible by touching the human spirit, by appealing to those universal values which alone can empower individuals and peoples to act in accordance with the long-term interests of the planet and humanity as a whole.Once tapped, this powerful and dynamic source of individual and collective motivation will release such a profound and salutary spirit among the peoples of the earth that no power will be able to resist its unifying force .For feedback please contact: nsazim@zol.co.zw or fteckie@yahoo.com: Website: www.bahai.org