LONDON. &#8211; Athletic and composed, with his hair in dreadlocks and scoring goals in a black and red striped shirt, Nathan Ake rekindles memories of a young Ruud Gullit from the golden years at AC Milan. Holland Under-21 soccer star Ake has impressed since breaking into Eddie Howe s Bournemouth side and has capped strong defensive displays with two goals, including Sunday s dramatic winner against Liverpool.But as he emerged through the youth ranks at ADO Den Haag, his style drew comparisons to another Dutch master of the same vintage as 1987 European Footballer of the Year Gullit. I compared him to Frank Rijkaard, said Michael Krul, who coached Ake for three years at the ADO academy. He was quiet off the field but a leader on it, a beast. He is very special, the most talented player I ve coached. Great technical ability and a fantastic mentality. I ve traced his career and he has the ability to succeed at a club like Chelsea. One coach must give him the chance because he can handle it. Ake has always been ambitious and sure of his own mind. He left ADO at 12 for Feyenoord and was spotted by Chelsea at 15, playing against them in a youth tournament. You have to accept the way it is, said Krul. At ADO we take our players from amateur sides and Ajax, PSV and Feyenoord take them from us. Then the English Premier League clubs come and take them. Chelsea invited Ake and his parents to the training complex at Cobham, where Didier Drogba came over for a chat. Like Drogba, Ake s father Moise hails from Ivory Coast, so the meeting left an impression.But it was the teenager who made up his own mind and told legendary Dutch manager Leo Beenhakker, then Feyenoord s technical director, he was leaving. I was young, so that was difficult to say to someone like that, said Ake. But you have to make decisions and you get stronger and grow up faster from that. Talk of his transfer reached the Dutch parliament, with questions raised about the export of teenage footballers as Ake settled in London. His elder brother Cedric got a job at the Chelsea Mega Store before enrolling at the University of Roehampton.Jeffrey Oost, a coach at Feyenoord Academy, said: I ve no doubt he can reach the very top, at a club like Chelsea. He was conscientious, prepared to listen and work hard in training. His mentality was perfect. He played with such energy and always with his heart. It was Boxing Day 2012 when Chelsea interim boss Rafa Benitez gave Ake his Premier League debut at 17, as a substitute against Norwich, and he was an unused sub in the Europa League final in 2013. &#8211; The Daily Mail.