Sophia Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent &#8212; Popular acapella group, Vapostori group Chiedza Chevatendi has bounced back with an album that will hit the market soon following the death of one of its founding members Tapiwa Chibaya.Chibaya, who was the lead vocalist died this year in March after a kidney and liver complication. In an interview, one of the band members Mazorodze Gadzikwa said the group was affected by the death of Chibaya who was their leader and also lead vocalist resulting in the delay of the release of the album. Zvinonzi kufa kwemujoni kamba haivharwi but to tell you the truth we were affected as a group. By the time of his death we had a number of songs which were ready for recording in which he was leading so it was difficult for us to go ahead and record the songs. We have since recovered now and managed to come up with an album which we are yet to give a title, he said.Gadzikwa said the album which carries a dedication to the late Chibaya also carries some songs which he sang before the time of his death. We penned the song Zorora Murugare for Chibaya and we arededicating the whole album to him, he said.Gadzikwa also apologised to their fans for the delay. He however said the group was still going strong, despite the loss. We want to apologise to our fans who were now thinking that the group had dissolved after the death of Chibaya. We are still there and we promise to give you the best, something we have been doing over the years, he said.The album is set to be launched at Pakare Paye Arts Centre in Norton. Chiedza Chevatendi rose to fame following the release of their debut album in 2004, Ivhu Kuvhu , which was later followed by a string of other hit albums, making them a force to reckon with on the local scene.The apostolic acapella group scooped the National Merit Award (NAMA) for the same album, while scoring high in other competitions that were held nationally.It is expected that the yet-to be released album will tilt the scales for the acapella group that have been consistent in maintaining its genre.The 10- track album included hit songs such as vai Jehova (Be the Lord), Vanodirirwa (Blessings), Dorcas and Kuparidza Shoko (Preaching the Word) and the latest offering is the group s eleventh album.