Winky DMelissa Mpofu Bulawayo Bureau &#8212; The resort town of Victoria Falls will once again be the place to be for New Year s Eve as it hosts two major year-end gigs, Jameson Vic Falls Carnival and Fallin 2016. Depending on one s wallet, people will choose between attending the carnival for an entry fee of $60 per day to watch mostly SA performers and the Fallin 2016 festival which has a $5 entry fee with entirely local acts with Winky D as the main performer.Organised by top Harare event promotions company Davies Events, which has successfully hosted international artistes Bryan Adams and James Blunt concerts, the festival will once again be hosted at the Vic Falls Rest Camp that is located in the town s business district.Davies Events spokesperson, Emma Dreyer said they were glad to be hosting the event again this year after the success of the festival last year. Last year, we planned this festival in a short space of time as we wanted to do something for the Vic Falls community. I m glad to say it was a success and we ve decided to host the event again this year with the same concept, said Dreyer.Entertainment will be provided by top Harare DJs, Rax, Raydizz, Rawse and Vic Falls DJs Spevah and Trill Angel. Our line-up doesn t have international artistes as we want to support local by bringing together artistes from Vic Falls, Harare and Bulawayo, she said.Unlike last year where mostly deep house music was played, this year s event will have more of dancehall a genre which has proved popular locally. This year, we ve done away with the deep house we had last year and are focusing on dancehall which is proving to be very popular. We just want Vic Falls residents to enjoy and those who ll have visited the resort town to have a feel of life in Zimbabwe. A VIP section will be set up where revellers will be expected to part with $25. We set a price ($5) for standard entry which we thought would be fair as we want everyone in Vic Falls to be part of this. The Invuvu Bar will be the VIP section during the festival. On December 31 however, VIP tickets will cost $30. We urge people to buy three-day access passes for $15 (standard) and $75 (VIP). Last year, carnival ticket holders thronged the Fallin Festival on the night when the carnival hosted community parties. They were given free entry on that night. Sponsors this year include Fastjet and Zambezi Lager.Meanwhile, organisers of the Jameson Vic Falls Carnival have introduced a beach party for this year s festivities, adding flavour to the already jam packed New Year s Eve party.Ten thousand revellers are expected to attend the festival which kicks off on December 29 with a beach party culminating with a New Year countdown on December 31.One of the organisers, Emmanuel Tivatyi said they had partnered neighbouring country Zambia to introduce the beach party which will start with white water rafting. We ve included Zambia for this year s carnival as we launch a new the beach party on the Zambezi River. This will take place on December 29 where people will do rafting before being taken to Gorge 23, said Tivatyi.He said they had engaged a partner for the beach party where safety measures have been put in place as the Zambezi River is infested with crocodiles. We re looking at a maximum of 10 000 people to attend the carnival as the event continues to grow. We re glad people have put the event on their calendars. Expected to entertain revellers over the three nights are multi-award winning platinum selling Congolese artiste Tresor, Winky D, Judgement Yard, South Africa s reggae band Tidal Waves, Half n Half and DJ Diloxclusiv as well as Zimbabwean DJ Jason Le Roux.They join Sketchy Bongo, multi-award winning hip hop duo Locnville and The Kifness. A train party will be held on December 30, where three shuttles will ferry party lovers to a bush party in Jafuta, a few kilometres outside the resort town.On New Year s Eve, revellers will be entertained at a concert at Vic Falls Farm School.