Herald managing editor Victoria Ruzvidzo, flanked by (from Left) StarFM general manager Comfort Mbofana, Ishmail Ndlovu, Zimpapers PR manager Beatrice Tonhodzayi and Itayi DJ Iyati Takaendesa pose with awards at the Zimbabwe Business Awards in Harare yesterday. Picture by John ManzongoInnocent Ruwende Senior Reporter&#8212;ZIMPAPERS (1980) Limited once again demonstrated its market dominance after its flagship, The Herald, won the top newspaper and top brand of the year at the Zimbabwe Business Awards held in Harare yesterday. Zimpapers Group Chief Executive Officer Mr Pikirayi Deketeke landed the leadership acumen and excellence award.Star FM won the Radio Station of the Year Award while its general manager Comfort Mbofana won the Business Person of the Year Award in the Radio and Broadcasting Services category.Minister of State for Harare Provincial Affairs, Miriam Chikukwa, who was the guest of honour at the event, urged Zimbabweans to unite and respect the country s leaders. Yes, Government removed some products from the open general import licence, restricting their importation into the country after it was felt that local industry had capacity to produce the goods. I was surprised when I visited one of the wholesalers. There were two prices for one product. One for cash and the other one for plastic money. You force the Government to re-think its decision. Business people need to be loyal and not be self-centred, she said.Zimpapers public relations and corporate affairs manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzai said 2016 had been a great year for the group. These awards in which our flagship, The Herald, is getting its automatic recognition as the country s top newspaper and the chief executive Mr Deketeke being recognised for having leadership acumen show that Zimpapers is moving in the right direction. Our first radio project, Star FM, is also already being named the top radio station. Star FM has been collecting accolades since its inception. The Zimbabwe All Media Products Survey (Zamps) also recognised it for having a 50 percent market share, she said.She said the Zimpapers family was excited with the awards and the chief executive did not take the awards as a personal achievement.Ms Tonhodzayi paid tribute to the group s advertisers, readers, listeners and other stakeholders.Among other recipients of the awards were Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) acting chief executive, Patrick Mavhura.He won the Businessperson of the Year Award in the Media Broadcasting Services, Harare Girls High School (Top Girls High School of the Year), Great Zimbabwe University, vice chancellor Professor Rungano Zvobgo (Lifetime of Academic Excellence) and Kenako Media chairperson Dr Peter Gwaza (businessman of the year).