Khiama Boys reunion . . . From left Zakaria Zakaria, Nicholas Zakaria, Peter Muparutsa and Alick Macheso at Gramma Records last weekTawanda Marwizi: Arts CorrespondentThe popular sungura genre would not be where it is today without the foundation laid by legendary ensemble Khiama Boys. Fronted by Nicholas Zakaria, the group had sungura guru Alick Macheso as the bassist and revered guitarist Zakaria Zakaria on the rhythm guitar. The brothers, whose chemistry has stood the test of time, will release an album, probably before Christmas, as they take music lovers through memory lane. They will also share the stage on December 22 in Marondera. The brothers are uniting almost 19 years after their split.The album, produced by legendary Peter Muparutsa, will be Nicholas 27th album. Muparutsa, who has worked with the trio before they parted ways, said the album would showcase the brothers prowess as recording artistes. I have worked with them before and all I can say is nothing has changed at all. The songs are really good. To me they have managed to bring back the original sound, he said.An elated elder Zakaria said it has been his wish to work with his brothers again, something they last did in 1997. There is no bad blood between us. We are relatives and that does not change. I am happy because that has been my wish always, he said.The album is ready for the market, the elder Zakaria said. Zaka Zaka played rhythm guitar for the three songs. We have done all the ground work for the project. By end of this week we will have the name of the venue and date of release, he said.Macheso through his publicist Tich Makahamadze said it was a great experience working with Madzibaba in the studio again. Of course the two usually meet on family issues as they are relatives but my boss is happy with the studio combination, he said.Makahamadze said songs from the album will definitely make an impact on the local music scene.Zaka Zaka, who released an album recently, said it was good to be back together in the studio with his brothers. It is always good to be back in the studio together. The two are great artistes, he said.The trio became a force on the local music industry with hit songs such as Mabhawu , Shamiso , Mabvi Nemagokora , Kubva Kure and Ndine Mubvunzo among other songs. However, the year 1997 became a bad one for the group as Macheso left the group to form Ochestra Mberikwazvo together with Zaka Zaka.They shared the stage at a Unity gala in Gutu in 2012 with Macheso and Zakaria promising to release a collaboration. Meanwhile, the brothers have lined up a number of joint shows during the festive season.