Cde MphokoLevi Mukarati in Masvingo Successionist plots by some individuals in Zanu-PF undermine the values of the 1987 Unity Accord, ruling party Vice-President and Second Secretary Cde Phelekezela Mphoko has said. He was addressing delegates as he invited President Mugabe to deliver his keynote address to the Zanu-PF 16th Annual National People s Conference here yesterday.The conference ends today.Cde Mphoko said some elements in Zanu-PF were undermining the gains of the liberation struggle because of their selfish quests. Your Excellency (President Mugabe), the unity of the people of Zimbabwe that you signed with the late Vice-President Joshua Nkomo should keep on reminding us that on the deathbed, Cde Nkomo emphasised the importance of the unity of the people of Zimbabwe under Zanu-PF, said Cde Mphoko. Your Excellency, that unity is now being threatened. The Zanu-PF constitution states very clearly that it was Zapu and Zanu, the two revolutionary parties, that liberated this country. The constitution does not say only Zapu or only Zanu liberated Zimbabwe, but it was the two revolutionary parties together. Therefore, the succession theory that is being mooted undermines this unity that forms the foundation of Zanu-PF as a revolutionary party. In fact, it exposes the spirit of individualism that is divorced from the purpose of unity and undermines the revolution. Your Excellency, under your command people died for the independence of this country. Therefore, this individualistic and opportunistic approach which is counter-revolutionary in nature should be resisted. President Mugabe has made it clear on several occasions that his successor will be chosen by the people.Cde Mphoko told delegates to the conference that the gathering was not convened to discuss leadership pos- itions.He said fruitful deliberations that would result in policies to make Zanu-PF the people s choice in the next elections should guide the meeting. I would like to emphasise to you that this is an ordinary Zanu-PF National People s Conference in accordance with our party constitution. It is not an elective conference or congress. We are gathered here to review the party and Government performances during 2016. We are not gathered here to talk about positions or to elect new people to key party positions. That is the work of the congress. We should aim for the best results and outcomes of this conference in preparation for the 2018 general elec- tions. The conference is themed Moving With Zim-Asset in Peace and Unity .