BEIRUT. Thousands were evacuated from the last rebel-held enclave of the city of Aleppo yesterday after a deal was reached to allow people to leave two besieged pro-government villages in nearby Idlib Province. Convoys of buses from eastern Aleppo reached rebel-held areas of countryside to the west of the city in cold winter weather, according to a UN official and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring group.At the same time, 10 buses left the Shi ite Muslim villages of al-Foua and Kefraya, north of Idlib, for government lines in Aleppo, the sources said.The recapture of Aleppo is Syrian President Bashar al-Assad s biggest victory so far in the nearly six-year-old war, but the fighting is by no means over with large tracts of the country still under the control of insurgent and Islamist groups.Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said some 20,000 civilians had been evacuated from Aleppo so far. The United Nations said nearly 50 children, some critically injured, were rescued from eastern Aleppo, where they had been trapped in an orphanage.The evacuation of civilians, including wounded people, from the two villages had been demanded by the Syrian army and its allies before they would allow fighters and civilians trapped in Aleppo to depart. The stand-off halted the Aleppo evacuation over the weekend. Complex evacuations from East Aleppo and Foua &amp; Kefraya now in full swing. More than 900 buses needed to evacuate all. We must not fail, Jan Egeland, who chairs the United Nations aid task force in Syria, tweeted.Ahmad al-Dbis, a medical aid worker heading a team evacuating patients from Aleppo, said 89 buses had left the city. Some evacuees told us that a few children died from the long wait and the intense cold while they were waiting to evacuate, he told Reuters.For those still waiting to leave rebel-held Aleppo, conditions were grim, according to Aref al-Aref, a nurse and photographer there. I m still in Aleppo. I m waiting for them to evacuate the children and women first. It s very cold and there s hunger. It s a long wait, he told Reuters. People are burning wood and clothes to keep warm in the streets. Photographs of people evacuated from Aleppo showed large groups of people standing or crouching with their belongings or loading sacks onto trucks before heading off to further destinations.Children, dressed in winter clothes against the cold, carried small backpacks or played with kittens and one older man, in traditional Arab robes and headdress, sat holding a stick.The Security Council was to vote in New York yesterday on a resolution to allow UN staff to monitor the evacuations. The draft resolution was the result of a compromise between Russia and France, and the United States said it was expected to pass unanimously. Reuters.