His marriage to Kim Kardashian is alleged to be on the rocks. But it seems Kanye West has been channelling his creative energy into making new music, reportedly setting up a temporary studio in his Bel-Air mansion in a bid to work on his next album. The rapper, who was recently released from hospital after suffering a mental breakdown allegedly caused by dehydration and sleep deprivation, is said to be more relaxed and focused since returning home, TMZ reports.Kanye is reportedly enjoying the privacy his new studio set-up affords him during his recovery. The father-of-two, who raises children North and Saint with Kim was hospitalised at UCLA Medical Centre for 10 days in November, and has been keeping a low profile since.Mail Online has contacted the rapper s representatives for comment. Meanwhile, Kim s BFF Jonathan Cheban laughed off the idea that the showbiz couple will split in the wake of the rapper s breakdown and hospitalisation.When DailyMail.com interviewed him at its New York holiday party with Elite Daily, Kim s longtime pal said: It s kinda funny to me, adding that I didn t know there was rumours about it. He d confided: I didn t hear any rumours today, cause I ve been busy today, but it s I mean, I just literally got off the phone with them. USWeekly claimed on Wednesday that Kim is allegedly planning to divorce Kanye when the time is right. She is also allegedly trying to build a case for full custody of the kids North and Saint .The site also stands by its earlier claim that West is not living with Kardashian inside their Bel-Air mansion. Citing multiple sources, they report the Yeezy star has been residing in an LA-area rental as an outpatient. USWeekly claims Kim definitely wants a divorce and she knows for sure she doesn t want to stay married to him .But the timing is terrible. So the Selfish author will have to take some time before she can do anything . She cares about Kanye and feels relieved he is getting the help he needs, a source said. But she s felt trapped for a while. A friend added the reality TV queen won t make any decision until West is fully recovered from his breakdown. A source told DailyMail that the two are doing fine as they work through his recovery. The divorce rumours are totally false and without merit, said the insider.DailyMail.com has reached out to both Kim s and Kanye s reps for comment. On Wednesday US Weekly also reported that Kim and the kids are staying with mom Kris while Kanye recuperates . Kim has spent the last few days at Kris house with the kids. The kids were there during Kanye s hospitalisation and are very happy there, the insider said. Kim really wants to protect the kids and will do everything she can to see that happens. They added: Kanye has not seen the kids very much since he was released and Kim does not think he should. She has no plans for them all to live together. This is not the first time the site has reported the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star was unhappy with her rapper spouse. Immediately after the singer s hospitalisation, sources claimed she asked for a break before flying to New York City for her first public appearance since her October robbery in Paris. It s just been hell for them, a source told US Weekly last month. It has become unbearable. It was added they were fighting a lot. A source at E! News denied these claims, saying Kim and Kanye were living together and that she wants to get Kanye back on his feet. She is not leaving him. She loves him .E! is the network that produces Keeping Up With The Kardashians .His breakdown was a temporary psychosis , according to his physician Michael Farzam. TMZ has claimed that he either went off his meds for a long-standing psychological ailment or changed the dose of his meds.For now Kim wants to be the supportive wife and make sure he is getting the care he needs, the new issue of USWeekly reports. As far as their two children, North, aged three, and Saint, aged one, Kim does not want them around Kanye at this time. Dailymail.