Farai JereTedious Manyepo Sports Reporter CAPS United president Farai Jere, who masterminded the Green Machine s first championship success in more than a decade, says he is working to ensure fans won t have to wait for such a long time for glory again. He also challenged Makepekepe to make a big impression in the 2017 CAF Champions League.The Green Machine will stage an open-top bus parade in Harare and Chitungwiza today, which will end with a party at their National Sports Stadium fortress.CAPS United will also stage an end-of-season awards ceremony in Harare on December 16, where the club will honour the Player of the Year, Players Player of the Year, Most Improved Player, Most Loyal Player, Golden Boot winner and the Rookie of the Year.The club s supporters will also honour their outstanding player of the season.Jere will also provide the Presidential Award to an individual the club deems reflected the values of the Green Machine more than any other person this season.Addressing the club s supporters in Harare on Thursday night, whom he saluted for standing with the team during a decade-long barren spell, Jere said his team had taken a leaf from African champions Mamelodi Sundowns, who displayed sheer determination to land the ultimate continental club prize. As CAPS United president, I am saying we are ready for the CAF Champions League, the Harare businessman said. We are not going to participate for the sake of participation but we should make an impact. I am challenging Lloyd Chitembwe and his players to emulate what Sundowns have done. Same time next year, we want to have the same gathering while celebrating our success in Africa. Prior to the 2016 top-flight season, I predicted that CAPS United would be the champions if you still remember. I am also predicting the same in the CAF Champions League. CAPS United will be the champions because I am saying we have to better what all the other local teams have done in the past. Dynamos have been to the finals in the same tournament back in 1998 and if they came second best, it is clear why I am saying we should be the African champions next year to better all those records by local teams. CAPS United have already completed all the CAF licensing requirements and the team is expected to beat the December 31 deadline for player registration.Makepekepe are expected to retain the bulk of the players who did duty for the team this year, including stars Hardlife Zvirekwi, Ronald Pfumbidzai and veteran Leonard Tsipa.The team will add some new faces to boost Chitembwe s options with Chapungu talismanic winger Xolani Ncube a confirmed target for Makepekepe. I knew CAPS United would win the league and while other people were still questioning our credentials, especially in the game against Chapungu, I was already locked in some talks with Chapungu authorities, where I proposed to take Ncube on board, said Jere. I have already told Chitembwe (Lloyd) of the move and he has also expressed interest in the young star. 