RIO DE JANEIRO. &#8211; The vice president of Brazilian top flight side Chapecoense has vowed to get the club back on its feet and playing again next year after a plane crash in Colombia wiped out almost the entire squad. Colombia s worst air disaster in two decades killed all but five people as the team flew to face Atletico Nacional of Medellin in the first leg of the Copa Sudamericana final, South America s equivalent of the Europa League.Club vice-president Ivan Tozzo told Brazil s Globoesporte website he was determined to rebuild Chapecoense and play in the Brazilian league again next year. We are going to have to restructure the club, sign new players, hold lots of meetings and have lots of patience to keep going in the Brasileiro, a tournament that is very important to us, Tozzo said. We intend on continuing next year. The BAe 146 charter plane went down about 10:15pm on Monday night with 68 passengers and a crew of nine on board. The aircraft had reported electrical problems and declared an emergency minutes earlier as it neared its destination, Medellin airport officials said. While talk of football has been muted as fans, players and officials come to terms with the tragedy, starting afresh would not be a new experience for the club.Chapecoense almost went to the wall at the start of the century but battled back to rise from the fourth to the first division in just five years, including two consecutive promotions in seasons 2012 and 2013.The small club from Chapeco in southern Brazil will be aided in their comeback by other senior teams, a group of whom called for the club to be exempt from relegation for three years.In a statement published by several of the country s top sides, including league champions Palmeiras, club presidents also said they would loan players to help Chapecoense get back playing again. It is the minimum gesture of solidarity that is within our reach at this point in time but it is borne of the sincerest desire to reconstruct this institution and that part of Brazilian football that was lost today, the statement said. - AFP.