Lovemore Meya Cool Lifestyle Correspondent &#8212; Tynwald Primary School last Friday hosted its annual speech and awards night at a colourful event that was well-attended by parents, family and friends to witness the pupils in action as they enthralled them with superb performances. The school children dazzled, Chipawo dance group was outstanding while the school s band was also in form as the members showcased their guitar-strumming skills much to the delight of an appreciative audience.In an interview some of the children, expressed their desire to come and attend the event whether being awarded for their efforts or not. The awards were given to the most improved per class, position one and two and overall best.Talented lead guitarist Takudzwa Ndiripo (12) who is doing Grade Seven said playing during the awards nights motivates him to do more. It has been two years now playing during the event and sometimes I feel frightened to perform before a large gathering. But the moment I get to the stage, courage reins in and leads me to perform well. During our performances, we communicate as a team using hand signals and instruments. When I finish school, I want to be a footballer or a doctor, he said. I am not getting a prize since I did not improve much but next time will be better, these were the words of Tafadzwa Nheta (11) who is in Six Yellow and had attended the event. Coming here today was driven by the need to support others so that they could actually do the same when it is my turn, he said.It was a different story to Natasha Makore (12) who came number three after she was beaten by only two marks. I was number three instead of two and it is really disappointing. I never received anything after the person ahead of me beat me with two marks. However, I have something to brag about since for the past years I have been awarded three prizes for being best in Art, Shona and Overall best, she said.Tawananyasha Banda (12) who won a prize for being the Best in Class and Overall Best was all smiles. These prizes are a motivation to every child at this school and I feel that school authorities should continue hosting them to reward those who could have worked hard during the year. In a way this is meant to motivate the excelling pupils.This is my last year at the school and I feel that the prize is really special to me and to those who failed to make it I say never feel outdone because failure is not an option, she said.