Innocent Ruwende Municipal Reporter&#8212;Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Saviour Kasukuwere has rescinded a decision by Harare City Council to sell a Newlands commercial stand to Mayor Bernard Manyenyeni. Minister Kasukuwere said the decision bordered on abuse of office and self-aggrandisement.He said council should dispose of land in a transparent and financially prudent manner.However, Clr Manyenyeni said the control of stands was prescribed by Minister Kasukuwere s ministry. I refer to the 1858th ordinary council meeting held on November 3, 2016 item 10 (A), wherein council resolved to allocate commercial stands to servicing councillors on an outright sale basis and notwithstanding council policy to sell such stands through tender and subject to further provisions of section 152 of the urban councils act Chapter 29;15. The said resolution thus sanctioned the sale of stand number 19552 Harare Township to you at a purchase price of $10 600,00 subject to your meeting the cost of advertising the sale survey transfer fees and provision of water and sewer reticulation to the stand. My office is concerned with such decisions by council which heavily boarder on abuse of office. It is my expectation that, rather than prioritise such self-aggrandising pursuits, reads to Clr Manyenyeni.It further reads; In this regard therefore, as enshrined in section 314 of the Urban Councils Act (Chapter 29:15), I hereby rescind this resolution and in the same vein, direct council to observe its own standing policies regarding disposal of land. But Clr Manyenyeni on Monday, argued no rules were bent. The access to the stand was per ministry s circular. Nothing was done outside of the circular. It is the same for all councillors. That is all I can say. Recently, Government withdrew all privileges for councillors to purchase commercial or industrial stands citing rampant abuse of the facility by some councillors who were allocating themselves several stands and profiteering in the process.In a circular written to all urban local authorities Local Government, Public Works and National Housing permanent secretary Eng George Mlilo, said such stands should be allocated on the basis of waiting list or by public tender. Following various abuses and misinterpretations of Circular No 1 of 2016 dated 17 February 2016, the Minister has, in terms of Section 112 of the Urban Councils Act (Chapter 29:15), set new perks for councillors which come into effect immediately. As a result circular 1 of 2016 and Circular 12 dated November 4 are hereby repealed and replaced. The minister has withdrawn all for councillors to purchase commercial or industrial stands. All such stands should be allocated on the basis of the waiting list or by public tender. Councillors many not use their position to gain such stands outside normal council procedure, reads the circular.Eng Mlilo said where a council has a policy which allows for councillors to acquire industrial, commercial or residential stands in any manner outside of this circular, such policy was declared null and void.He said to facilitate serving councillors to live in a dignified manner the Minister had granted permission to councillors who did not have a residence within their wards to be allocated a single residential stand in their life time.