Municipal ReporterTHE Zimbabwe Multi Donor Trust Fund is embarking on the second phase of its Water and Sanitation Programme that will see the African Development Bank (AfDB) administered fund releasing $36 million for reinforcement of water distribution and waste water collection systems in Harare and four other cities. Under the project, Zimfund will embark on a pipe replacement. Harare City Council and other municipalities are losing treated water to leakages owing to old pipes. Harare s 5 500km water pipes are now over 50 years old and have exceeded their lifespan.It is estimated 65 percent of treated Harare water is lost through leaks. ZimFund water and sanitation engineer Hebert Nyakutsikwa said Zimfund would also acquire sewer cleaning and maintenance equipment, domestic and commercial metres, laboratory equipment and constructing buildings for tests for Harare, Chitungwiza, Ruwa and Redcliff councils. We are now embarking on projects under Phase Two. Phase One was meant to restore treatment capacities of water and sewerage plants but now citizens need to get water in their homes. We used $43 million in the first phase and now we are looking at spending $36 million. Currently we are in the procurement stage. We have 18 packages of which 13 have been awarded and work has already started. Out of these, one is already complete which is supplying pipes to the four councils, he said.He said construction contracts in Ruwa and Chitungwiza were almost complete while a contract to address non-revenue water for the four councils is ongoing.Eng Nyakutsikwa said most of the council distribution networks were like leaking buckets and needed urgent attention. We are providing technical assistance to Harare which is losing 65 percent of its treated water through leaks. The idea is to bring leakages to acceptable levels. This will result in more water going to the residents. We expect most of the works to be completed next year. Some works will be completed before others. There is close cooperation between us and the municipalities. Their engagement have been helpful. We hope by the end of next year areas in Harare will be getting more water. Very soon you will see us digging and removing old pipes, he said.The AfDB was requested by donors to establish and administer the ZimFund facility.Under Phase One, the ZimFund managed to provide for Urgent Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project Phase 1 in Mutare, Masvingo, Kwekwe, Chegutu, Harare, and Chitungwiza on the water side.While Phase One focused more on restoring water and wastewater treatment capacity, the second phase places greater emphasis on improving both the water and sewerage network performance, strengthening commercial aspects and enhancing service delivery efficiency.According to the AfDB, these contribute to successful non-revenue water management.Phase II will be implemented in Harare, Chitungwiza, Ruwa and Redcliff, serving an estimated population of 1,9 million people.