Titus ZvomuyaTakudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter &#8212; RESPECTED administrator Titus Zvomuya has described his appointment to the Sport and Recreation Commission board as one of the greatest achievements of his long career in sport management. Zvomuya, a versatile administrator who has served in different sporting disciplines including rugby and cricket is part of the seven commissioners who were appointed by the Minister of Sport and Recreation Makhosini Hlongwane on Thursday.The appointment came at a time when Zvomuya had gone to his rural home for the Christmas and New Year holidays. Zvomuya, however, said he was over the moon with the recognition he got from Government and pledged to work hard to make sport a big industry in the country. I am happy to be entrusted with such a high office and it has come at the right time for me. I feel honoured to be given such challenging tasks and it is part of growing up. I believe we have a good team and we will tackle all the necessary challenges with success. We will indeed attend to every situation and make sure that we do our best. The good thing is that the minister has given us morale support and that is great motivation for our team, Zvomuya said.Zvomuya, who also served on the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee board said he feels challenged to grow and it was his wish to one day land the biggest sporting office. It did not come as a surprise as it is everybody s wish to work in the high office. Having served in the ZOC board for some time I always had a dream of being part of the highest sports office. The SRC board is the highest sporting office in the country and with the team we have we know we can turn around the sporting fortunes, said Zvomuya.Corporate executive Lillian Mbayiwa reckoned that her appointment was also in recognition of the role her company Old Mutual had been playing in the development of sport in the country. I believe the appointment to SRC is in recognition towards what we at Old Mutual have been doing in sports over the years in our various sponsorships that include rugby at developmental level, road running through Old Mutual Relay Challenge, Westgate half marathon, Old Mutual Vumba Mountain and many other road races around the country. I look forward to contributing towards the development of sports in Zimbabwe, drawing from my years of experience in that space. Working with colleagues who have a rich history in sports development I believe we will be able to take sport to a higher level in Zimbabwe, said Mbayiwa.Former National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president Joseph Mungwari could not say much as he said he has not yet received a formal appointment letter. I can t rush to comment, but if that is the position I will be glad having served sports in several capacities I am prepared. I think they have seen my potential and will be an investment for me, I promise to give my best, said Mungwari.The other members of the Sports Commission board that will be led by Edward Siwela include Shearwater adventures public relations manager Clement Mukwasi, ex-Zimbabwe Rugby Union president John Falkenberg and construction and civil engineering guru James Goddard.Siwela, who could not be reached for comment yesterday, had been acting board chairman until Hlongwane retained him on a substantive basis on Thursday.Hlongwane is expected to add three more people to the board early into the New Year.