 Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name. Psalms 100:4 David is one of the people in a position to teach on protocol because he has been in the presence of greatness on so many occasions. He understood what is required when people are entering into the presence of greatness or even in the presence of God. Many people have been to several places for one reason or the other and they came back with a negative report. Either they were not accepted, they did not get what they have been there for, or they did not get access probably because there are procedures that are supposed to be followed.There are stipulated procedures that are required in a given environment for you to enter &#8211; that is protocol.Environments are forever present but you do not just walk into any environment. When you find yourself in an environment, there is a way you have to enter that environment.Certainly, there is always a way again that you can exit any environment. Entering into any environment requires certain protocols to be observed and also even coming out of an environment there are some requirements.Sometimes, requirements that allow you to enter an environment are not the same with those for you to leave the same environment. In any environment that you enter there are things that you do and observe that usher you into that environment.In the scripture we have read, David is advising us to enter into the Lord s gates with thanksgiving. Right beyond the gates there is the presence of God.Every time you see a gate, it is there to secure certain things or to give security to the people inside. The moment you see a gate you know that somebody is trying to be kept outside.A gate is there for security but in this case, this is the presence of God where all of us are invited. David is giving us information on how to enter everytime &#8211; with thanksgiving.Learn to thank God every time, which means when you wake in the morning the first thing you say is to thank Him.If you are entering into a day, do not look at it as a day, take it as the presence of God. Enter into your day with thanksgiving, start your day with thanksgiving and before you can do anything you have to thank the Lord.If you want to enter and stay in the presence of God, thanksgiving is the protocol and code of conduct. If praise and thanksgiving are required for you to enter into His presence, it means that there is something you can also do in the presence of God that can get you dismissed.If you are such a person who complains everytime, you cannot stay in the presence of God. Do not belong to a ministry that you always complain about.God does not like complaining, even the children of Israel they always complained and murmured and that is the reason why they spent forty years to enter into the Promised Land. Complaining will prolong your journey in life, stop complaining everytime.If it requires thanksgiving for you to enter the presence of God, the moment you begin to complain you will exit the presence of God. Many people have been rejected in certain places probably because of how they tried to enter into those places. It was not according to the protocol of the place because every environment has got its own protocol.Protocol has to be observed, do not violate the acceptable protocol in a given area otherwise you will never be granted access.The people that have rejected you, try to find out how you tried to have access into their lives. Sometimes maybe there was no thanksgiving and appreciation whatsoever and you wanted to enter through backdoors.If you want to be accepted in people s lives, know that every person no matter how busy he is, there is a door that can be opened for you if you know how to observe his protocol. God has been blessing us everytime and leading us to places where we have been rejected.We have the blessing of God upon our lives but we are not really taught and trained on how to enter different environments.Success is a place and failure is a place as well, healing is a place and sickness is a place. All these are environments, even marriage is an environment and there is a way that you can enter it and a way also that causes you to quickly exit the marriage environment.There are things that you need to observe in any given environment. What you need to enter into an environment sometimes is not the same with what is required for you to exit.What carried Joseph into the prison was different to what carried him into the palace. Every environment requires a different protocol and procedure. What Joseph did to be arrested was not the same thing he did to be released.You enter into environments through certain protocols and you exit environments through certain protocol which are different.There is a mistake that most people make. They find themselves in places where there is favour and they quickly exit. In a place where there is favour happening, you must not leave such a place.Wherever you go, in any environment that you enter, you have to look for favour. If you find it, do not leave such a place. People miss it because they are not trained on what to do for them to enter into good and favourable environments. They are not trained on how to behave so that they can stay there.People are always trained on how to exit, they always do things that will get them fired before they enjoy the favour that is in the place. Somehow you will notice that people are always trained to do it the wrong way everytime. You can actually notice some training there.Some people who are struggling and suffering out there have worked for it, they have qualified for what they are going through. People do things that will cause them to lose their favour, they do things that will cause them to lose their next level of favour.You have to know how to exit one environment and enter into the next environment. You have been stuck in one place for too long simply because you have not known how to be appealing to a certain individual. There is a way that you can act and be accepted into environments.Feedback:www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwatwitter.com/prmakandiwawww.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwaHelpline: +263-4-339341