BARCELONA. &#8211; Barcelona are the more desperate side as Real Madrid visit Catalonia today for the first El Clasico of the season boasting a six-point lead at the top of the Spanish La Liga soccer table. The match kicks-off at 5:15pm.Madrid have won 15 more points in all in La Liga under the guidance of Zinedine Zidane since the sides last met in April and are riding a 31-game unbeaten run in all competitions. On Saturday we have more to play for than Madrid, they can lose, we can t, said Barcelona defender Gerard Pique. Barca are off to their worst league start in nine seasons. However, coach Luis Enrique believes much of the media criticism of his side has been overblown, citing the institutional crisis that Barca overcame in the January of his debut season in 2015 to win the treble. We remain favourites for all the titles, but it is evident we have to improve, said Enrique. We lack consistency, but don t exaggerate. In my first season you (the media) exaggerated and we ended up winning the treble. And Barcelona remain the best team in the world on their day despite unconvincing displays this season, coach Enrique also said yesterday ahead of their clash with La Liga leaders and arch-rivals Real Madrid.Barcelona trail Zidane s unbeaten side by six points going into today s Clasico at the Nou Camp having failed to beat the likes of Malaga and Real Sociedad and losing to Celta Vigo and Alaves in their worst start to a season since 2004-05.The champions have produced blistering displays this season, however, beating Real Betis 6-2 on the opening day and hammering Celtic 7-0 and Manchester City 4-0 in the Champions League. I feel optimistic when I see my team train and compete every day. There are many great teams around but no-one is better than us, Enrique told a news conference. The coach was echoing the words of Barca s Turkey international Arda Turan. Barca are the best team around and when we play as we know how we are unstoppable, he told the club website.Enrique also predicted that Real would come to the Nou Camp with a defensive approach. They ll have no problem with giving the ball to us and that suits us as we need it. They ll try and take advantage of set pieces, quick transitions and try to be effective in the final third. We want to have more control, create and take advantage of space and create chances, the coach said.Midfield maestro and captain Andres Iniesta returns to the side after six weeks out with a knee injury, meaning Barca could have their first choice starting 11 if full back Jordi Alba recovers from a knock sustained against Real Sociedad. Iniesta is our captain and the reference point for our style but I don t think our style will change because of one player, although it s great news to have our captain back, Luis Enrique said. We have the chance to put ourselves at a more comfortable distance from Real Madrid, but it will not determine the outcome of the title. The biggest match in club football is expected to capture an audience of 650 million people worldwide, according to figures released by La Liga. I am not going to say it is just another game, it is a very important match, it has a special meaning . . . a special taste, Real president Florentino Perez said. No one hides that is has a worldwide impact, it is seen by millions of people across the world, like the World Cup final. Yet, the composed Zidane refused to accept that a first Liga title in five years would be Madrid s to lose should they bag victory at the Camp Nou. I am not thinking about the consequences, he said after giving a goalscoring debut to his son Enzo in Madrid s 6-1 Copa del Rey thrashing of Cultural Leonesa on Wednesday. We are thinking about preparing well for the game, and, whatever happens, it will not be decisive. Both sides are blighted by injury concerns. Madrid will be without Gareth Bale with the Welshman now set to miss up to four months after an ankle operation, while Toni Kroos is also sidelined by a broken foot.Tough tackling midfielder Casemiro made his first appearance in two months in midweek and could come into contention to partner the Croatian duo of Luka Modric and Mateo Kovacic.Cristiano Ronaldo has shot to the top of La Liga s goalscoring charts once more with five in his last two league outings and looks set to be partnered by Karim Benzema and Lucas Vazquez in Bale s absence. &#8211; AFP.&nbsp;