Breast cancer is always caused by a genetic abnormalityJeffrey D. Blaustein: CorrespondentOne of every eight women in the US will develop invasive breast cancer over her lifetime. Eighty percent of those cancers are fuelled in part by oestrogens. One treatment for women whose breast cancer is fuelled by oestrogen or what is often called oestrogen receptor (ER) positive breast cancer is for them to take drugs that block oestrogens. But oestrogens have benefits that should be considered. This particularly affects post-menopausal women who have gone through the trauma of surgery for invasive breast cancer. They are typically faced with a very difficult decision. Should they take oestrogen blockers or not? Is the treatment worth it, balancing the risk of recurrence of the cancer with potential quality-of-life issues?When prescribing a particular drug for post-menopausal, ER-positive, breast cancer survivors, physicians often consider the effects of oestrogen blockers on bone and the uterus.However, they also need to consider the effects on other aspects of these women s health. Oestrogens also have many positive effects on mental health, cognitive function, libido and protection of the brain, possibly even slowing the onset of Alzheimer s disease.I am a neuro endocrinologist, and I have studied the effects of hormones, including oestrogens, on the brain, behaviour and mental health for over 40 years. Not only is the fact that oestrogen is actually a class of hormones not well understood, but so are the many positive functions of oestrogens. As with any health treatment, the potential negative effects should be weighed against the potential positive effects.There is no hormonecalled oestrogenFirst, a primer on what exactly oestrogen is. There is actually no hormone called oestrogen . Oestrogens are a class of hormones. There are three different forms of oestrogens in the body: estradiol, estriol and estrone. Although they are all pretty similar in function, they vary in potency. Oestrogens found in plants, like soy, are also sometimes simply called oestrogen, although their effects may differ from those of the oestrogens produced in the body.Estradiol is the dominant oestrogen circulating prior to menopause. It is produced mainly in the ovaries. In most cases, this is the most potent form of oestrogen. During pregnancy, the dominant form is estriol, produced by the placenta. And during menopause, when the levels of estradiol decrease, the dominant oestrogen is oestrogen, produced in fat tissue.The ovaries stop producing oestrogens during menopause, resulting in lower levels of oestrogens in the body. Yet other organs, including fat and the brain, continue to produce them. There are still oestrogens doing whatever they were doing before, but because their levels are lower, they are not doing their work as effectively.One class of oestrogen blockers that is often prescribed for women with oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer does its job by blocking oestrogens from getting to the receptors of the cells in the body, including cancer cells. The body still produces oestrogens, but their effects are blocked in some cells.A second class, called aromatase inhibitors, blocks the production of oestrogens. Both types of oestrogen blocker act in the brain as well as the breast, ovaries, vagina and many other parts of the body.Since these drugs block the effects of oestrogens, we should expect that, besides blocking the negative effects of oestrogens on the breast cancer, they will block the positive effects on the brain and on mental health.Unfortunately, many experiments directly assessing the effects of these drugs in breast cancer survivors are missing essential controls. It would not be ethical to give one group of women with a high risk of recurrence of breast cancer a placebo.However, although much more research on the effects of anti-oestrogens in post-menopausal women with breast cancer is needed, by considering what we know about the effects of oestrogens from animal studies, all that we know about the effects of oestrogens in women without breast cancer and what we know from some studies about the effects of anti-oestrogens in breast cancer survivors, we can conclude that anti-oestrogens are likely to compromise quality of life in some women.What are the positiveeffects of oestrogens?The many positive functions of oestrogens and their effects on health are often underestimated.Oestrogens are responsible for the development of reproductive tissues and female secondary sexual characteristics (like breasts) at puberty. They also maintain bone density and decrease the risk of osteoporosis, which can result in brittle bones that break easily. But the role oestrogens play in women s health goes far beyond reproductive health and bone density.Some of the most profound effects of oestrogens are in the brain. For instance, hot flashes, which many women experience while going through menopause, are due to the loss of oestrogens acting on brain areas involved in temperature regulation.They can also influence cognitive function how we think, particularly verbal memory and fluency, which is the memory of words and how we express ourselves in language. And around the time of menopause in many women, they are believed to have an anti-depressive effect.Sleep disturbances during menopause are believed to be caused by absence of the oestrogens acting on sleep centres in the brain. The decreased actions of oestrogens on the brain during menopause may also influence sexual desire.And finally, oestrogens may be protective in the brain. This has been demonstrated in non-human primates. In women, oestrogens may decrease the incidence of Alzheimer s disease if hormone replacement begins soon after menopause.After menopause, the level of oestrogens drops to low amounts. Appreciable amounts are still produced in fat tissue. We now believe that the brain also produces some oestrogens as well, a topic that is being studied right now.Weighing the pros andcons of oestrogen blockersShould women with oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer take inhibitors of oestrogens? The decision of whether or not to use oestrogen blockers is a complex one that each woman must make in consultation with her oncologist.The potential negative effects of these blockers on the brain and quality of life should be weighed against the potential positive effects on recurrence of the cancer. The answer to this will depend on the absolute risk of recurrence of the cancer.In making a decision about a treatment that could impact quality of life, it would be most helpful to speak with an oncologist who is fully aware of the potential negative, as well as positive, effects of these drugs. Conversation AfricaJeffrey D. Blaustein, Professor of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts Amherst.