How many of you have heard the term bucket list ? What is termed the bucket list is a series of places you want to visit and things you want to accomplish before you die. Many people put interesting places like visiting our very own Victoria Falls or the Great Wall of China or visit the land of our Lord and Saviour Israel if you are a Christian.Activities can include bungee jumping (it is not on my bucket list thank you) walking with lions in the African Safari or meeting the richest man in the world.So I was determined that solving the Rubik s Cube would be a great accomplishment for me.If you do not know, the Rubik s Cube is that cube with six different colours on it. They are scrambled and the goal is to get the colours back to their respective sides. When I achieved that- thanks to notes from Google- I immediately came up with another bucket list of things to do before I die.You know you are only a teenager for so long. After that adult life comes and along with it a lot of responsibilities. Why not have teen life bucket list that you need to work on?It will have the list of places to visit and things to do before you say goodbye to being a teen. Now as a teen it is expected for you to finish high school well for that matter. But it is important for every teen to have that on their list.However, you want to start with simple things that challenge you to do well, to push your limits and expand your potential. What you need is to accomplish something each day, week or month, no matter how small.Let it be done, the continuous challenging of yourself creates a habit of achieving. When you develop a habit of achieving you give birth to a character of positivity and optimism. That character breeds success.So what can be on your teen life bucket list?In today s world there are so many things that are important for a teen to consider.Technology gives you a vast choice of something you can add to your teen life bucket list.I am going to give you a list of 10 examples of teen life bucket lists; you can also add some of your own. It can start with a simple thing like cleaning your own room and keep it tidy always, trying a new food or solve a Rubik s Cube.Challenge yourself to accomplish and build a character that starts you on the path to a life of success.Here are 10 things to put you on your teen life bucket list. Remember successful completion of high school is always there.1. Join a school club2. Get your driver s license3. Make a speech in front of an audience4. Complete an ICT skill in line with technological advancement5. Travel outside the country (Or at least get a passport!)6. Learn a Foreign Language7. Run your own business8. Publish your own book9. Save money for yourself10. Pledge to abstainThe list gives you a picture of what you can put on your own. This teen life bucket list will usher you into adulthood with experiences and skills that are important to adult life besides the academic achievement which is expected of all.I have known of people who lost out on great jobs because they had not got their driver s license yet!Terence is with zwTEENS an organisation which deals with teens and issues affecting them. You can reach zwTEENS on 0774599446, WhatsApp 0772128170, terence@zwteens.com or visit their website www.zwteens.com