Arthur Marara Motivation&#8212; Success is goals and all else is commentary (Brian Tracy). Brian Tracy is one of the leading authorities on leadership and personal development. He summarises the importance of goals to the success equation. There is nothing complicated about success! Everyone can be successful as long as they are disciplined enough.The purpose of this series on the 10 DISCIPLINES OF SUCCESS is to bring out basic principles which can help you improve yourself, your career, your family and your business.Successful people live their lives with great discipline.They hold themselves accountable to higher values and they hold themselves accountable for the direction that their lives take.They do not look for other people to blame for their failures; they look at what they have been doing and ask themselves why they did not succeed.This week I will share with you the 1st Discipline of successful people and that is the power of Goals and Goal Setting.Successful people have the discipline of deliberately, and intentionally setting goals for their lives and their businesses.Remember what I said in the earlier article, discipline births habits.Goal setting can actually develop into a habit. Successful have successful habits.Priority of goals Success is the progressive realisation of a worthy goal or ideal. (Earl Nightingale). Earl Nightingale (March 12, 1921 March 28, 1989) was an American radio personality, writer, speaker, and author, dealing mostly on the subjects of human character development, motivation, excellence and meaningful existence.He was named as the Dean of Personal Development in some circles and his works continue to be used extensive today.Paul J Meyer proffered an even deeper definition of success; Success is the progressive realisation of predetermined, worthwhile, personal goals. Paul J. Meyer is known for founding Success Motivation Institute in 1960 and dedicated it to motivating people to their full potential .His flagship company has grown into an international group of companies marketing his materials in more than 60 countries and in 23 languages.What is quite captivating about the definitions by the two gentlemen is the acknowledgement of the priority of goals and goal setting in the success equation.What this means is that if you do not set goals for your life, there is no success to talk about. Successful people have goals, while others have wishes.Successful people have clear goals which are clearly laid down, and retrievable, while other people leave their lives to chance.As we approach 2017, you might need to go a step further and be more serious in discipline and commit yourself to goals.Success at a closer lookI will deliberately take Paul J Meyer s definition and for a minute or two conduct a brief exegesis. Progressive realisation The term connotes that success is not a one day activity, it is an ongoing process.This might be doom news to people who believe that an insecticide will spray their problems away.Success is not an event, it is a journey! This virtue has disappeared among many because of the habit of taking the easy way out. Predetermined Predetermination simply means it is not an accident. You deliberately make up your mind and apply yourself towards a particular goal.Predetermination means there are no surprises. Successful people predetermine the future that they want.They do so by utilising the power of goals. You need to sit down with yourself, your business and make up your mind and apply your mind to some goals. Worthwhile personal goals This simply means that you need to set goals that are meaningful, valuable, useful.Being the lawyer I am, I am quite alert to the fact that what might be valuable to one might not necessarily be valuable to another.Whatever goals that you set must bring you closer to be the person that you want to be.A lot of us set goals which when we achieve do not mean anything.There are people who actually set goals to embarrass or ruin someone s career, and guess what if they are disciplined enough, and manage their goal they can actually realise it.The question is, is this a worthwhile goal? What is your motivation for setting the goals that you are setting? The story below may enlighten you a bit.Meaningless goals A storyA story is often told about a farmer who had a dog which used to sit by the roadside waiting for vehicles to come around.The dog would always run down the road, barking and trying to overtake any car that it sees.Quite concerned, a neighbour asked the farmer Do you think your dog is ever going to catch a car? The farmer replied with interesting wisdom, That is not what bothers me. What bothers me is what he would do if he ever caught one. There is clearly that the dog could do if it caught a vehicle.Surely a car is not one of the items that can constitute part of its menu yet enormous energies was spent chasing the same cars.This is the scenario that many people in life find themselves in.They spend a lot of energy, time, and resources pursuing meaningless goals.What is the value of the goals that you are setting and possibly chasing?Are they adding value to you? Are they adding value to other people?What does not add value to you, will always take away value from you.Money is not successMoney is not success, and success is not money.This might be a tasteless statement to someone who is broke, but that is the truth.The mistake people make is to think that success is a million dollars in your account. This explains why people enter into shoddy and shady deals and even corrupt practices. It s because we think when we have money we are successful.This is not always the case unless your goal was to reach a million dollars.Your goals can be to shed off weight by 10 or 20 pounds, it can also be to arrive home or before 5:30pm daily and spend more time with your family, it can also be to be better spouse, it can also to be a better manager at your company.Success happens when you achieve the goals. Whatever your field or life maybe, you need to set worthwhile goals.When you realise that goal, then you are successful.The temptation which hits many of us is to have narrow goals which speak only to one side of your life; your finances for examples at the exclusion of others.You need to set goals that enable you to live a wholesome life.Goals must appeal to your career, finances, health, relationships, family, spirituality, and community among other areas.Without goals there is no success!I will continue on this discipline next week . . .Arthur Marara is an Attorney, Author and Speaker. He is also the author of the Personal Development Toolkit , Keys to Financial Freedom , and Keys to Effective Time Management . Send your feedback to greatnessclinic@gmail.com or like his page on Facebook, or Follow him on Twitter @ArthurMarara or Whatsapp: +263772467255.