Tawanda Matanhire Cool Lifestyle Reporter&#8212; Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it says a proverb from the Bible. This is a reflection that children have always had a need for life skills which would help them to better their future. In the same regard parents and guardians today need not to depart from the old proverb as it will help to bring up a well-groomed child can make them proud. With a view that parents may not always be available to give proper grooming because of the busy schedules and lack of expertise, Zoe Counselling and Training Centre Trust will be hosting the annual Life Skills camp from December 12 to 14 at Danhiko in Masasa.School-going children taking part. The camp is targeted at imparting life skills that complement children s academic excellence to young people in the country. Director of Zoe Trust, Fungai Gwiriri, said every child who will attend the camp will not be the same after they go through a series of programmes during the three-day event. He assured that the children will be in a safe environment where they will be under the monitoring of the trust staff members throughout the camp. The Camp will also see every participant receive meals and refreshments from within which means they will not have to worry about bringing their own food. They will be transported from the Harare CBD on the 12th and brought back after the camp.Every child who will participate will have to pay $40 which will cover for accommodation, transport, facilitation fees and certificates. The deadline for the payment is today and every participants will be required to sign a code of conduct so as to ensure discipline within the camp. For every child who will be participating the parents have to sign an indemnity form as a way of allowing their children to take up and in the event of any anomaly. This is surely an opportunity for kids to hang out with their peers and share ideas that best relates among themselves. It s also a time to take children off the normal school schedules and be in a different environment.