Dombodzvuku Primary School traditional dance groupSophia Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent&#8212;Talent search show Dreamstar Zimbabwe in partnership with Nash Paints have donated stationery to Dombodzvuku Primary school and the company will paint classroom blocks at the school. The school s traditional dance group is one of the finalists who are set to take part in this year s finals set for December 17 at the Harare International Conference Centre.In an interview on the sidelines of the donation, Dreamstar Zimbabwe spokesperson Leonard Mapfumo said the gesture was meant to show appreciation to Dombodzvuku Primary School for defying all odds and prove that they support talent from children. We want to appreciate the teachers and parents of these children who have supported them in taking part in the competitions. They came for auditions and proved that they are really talented and we appreciate it. That is why we have partnered with Nash Paints to at least paint the school and also donate some stationery, he said.Mapfumo also encouraged the parents to continue supporting their children in the extra curriculum activities. Gone are the days when art was regarded as something for dumb children or useless people. Art is now sustaining lives and we want to thank you for supporting these children and we encourage you to continue supporting even the young ones who are still in their early grades, he said.Mapfumo said the moral is high among the finalists who are currently in camp. The atmosphere is not tense at all, all the participants are working hard to make sure that the show is a success and they are helping each other, it is no longer a competition to those in camp, he said.Last year s winner Probeatz walked away $5 000 richer and this year the amount has been reduced to $3 000 for the winner, $ 1 500 for the first runner up, $5 00 for the second runner up and $200 for each of the finalists.This is the third edition of the talent search show which was founded by the Chinese Federation of Zimbabwe headed by Zivanai Zhau. For the past two years finalists have been taken to China for cultural exchange programmes and some are currently employed in China as a result of the talent search show. This year s finalists are set to leave the country in January for a cultural exchange programme in China.