Ron Jacobs Correspondent The movement against South African apartheid was perhaps the most universal and popular movement in the western world in the 1980s. Hundreds of thousands protested in a multitude of ways from letter-writing campaigns to shantytown occupations of city squares and college campus greens. Institutions of all types, from churches to universities, from corporations and banks to city halls, were forced to remove their investments from companies doing business with the racist South African regime, ultimately forcing that regime to end its racist legal system. Even the right wing Reagan and Thatcher regimes were ultimately forced to end their support for Pretoria s racist system and grudgingly go along with the popular will.However, as Ron Nixon s new book, titled Selling Apartheid, makes clear, the South African regime was not going to go down without a fight. In addition to police and military actions of varying brutality, the regime hired advertising men to sell their brand of repression to people and governments around the world.The campaign he describes involved a cynical manipulation of emotions about race, implied white supremacist chauvinism, and outright lies. Advertising campaigns presented South Africa as a tourist destination full of beauty and the perfect climate (which it had) with absolutely no mention of the racial discrimination built into its social and political systems.Glossy photo spreads were bought in newspaper and magazines and television programs were made and sold to television networks in the US and Britain. These shows were then shown to the unsuspecting viewer as if they were made by agencies independent of the apartheid government and their only agenda was tourism.In a particularly cynical move, the South African government was able to buy off a few African-Americans over the years in what was ultimately a vain attempt to convince Black Americans that apartheid was okay. The first of these individuals was a former supporter of the Black resistance movement in South Africa, Max Yergan.In what can only be described as a complete sell out, Yergan went from working with early members of what would become the primary resistance organisation against apartheid the African National Congress (ANC) to giving speeches in the United States and Africa aimed at convincing his audiences that apartheid helped Blacks.Once a committed left-winger, Yergan came under pressure during the McCarthy era in the US, became an informer for the FBI, and turned against his friends in South Africa; friends that included freedom fighters Nelson Mandela and Joseph Tambo.Yergan was but the first of a few such individuals who would follow in his treacherous footsteps. The bottom line for the white South African regime and the United States was money. Several US companies had millions invested in South African industry.These companies took advantage of the cheap labour (and maximised profits resulting from that labour) and minimal regulations offered by the Pretoria regime. In turn, they either supported or at the least, tacitly accepted the racism and brutality that defined the apartheid system. Consequently, it was these corporations and financial institutions that were targeted by the anti-apartheid movement s divestment campaign.Churches, universities, and other institutions that had investments in such companies were ultimately convinced to drop those investments. Sometimes that convincing was purely of a moral plea, other times it required a concerted effort that combined direct action, monetary boycotts, and legislative pressure.As an advocate of the current campaign against Israeli apartheid, it was more than interesting to compare the similarities in the campaign waged against the movement against South Africa s apartheid and that currently waged against the Palestinian-led Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement of today.Residents of western nations are constantly barraged with imagery that attempts to portray the Tel Aviv government as a beacon of fairness and democracy in the Middle East.Furthermore, one is constantly told that the Palestinians who resist the occupation of their lands and the ever-present system of discrimination are nothing but terrorists. This latter phenomenon was also the case in South Africa.Indeed, the ANC was not removed from the US list of terrorist organisations until 2008, more than 15 years after apartheid met its well-deserved end. Of course, there are specific differences between the two systems of separation referred to here, but the essential fact apartheid is true for the historic South African regime and the current Israeli one.Ron Nixon s text is an essential addition to the volume of work on South Africa s apartheid regime. Rich in detail, it provides the reader with an extended look at the nature of propaganda in modern society.A one-time journalist for the New York Times, Nixon makes his argument with facts and writing that is both accessible and engaging. In doing so, he exposes the moral vacuousness of those who propagandised for the racists of South Africa not because they necessarily believed in apartheid, but because they made money from doing so. It is a tawdry yet familiar tale.Furthermore, in his telling Nixon doesn t just rake the white South African regime over the coals, he also points his pen at the equally deserving US and British governments, especially those of Reagan and Thatcher.In terms of how the world seems to work, Selling Apartheid is a tawdry yet familiar tale. Counterpunch.