Sports Reporter&#8212;CITY Hornets are holding the Harare Basketball Men s A League spellbound on their return to elite competition and have finished the first round, unbeaten and at the top of the log table. But their coach Talent Marembe has demanded more from his charges in the second round of the fixtures.The Harare City Council owned basketball franchise has collected a possible 22 points from the first 11 matches of the season and are one point ahead of second placed JBC.Their coach Marembe is electing to remain cautious ahead of the second round of matches.Last season, City Hornets won the Harare Basketball B league championship in fashion as they completed the second tier league unbeaten and now Marembe is aiming higher. Having finished the B League unbeaten in the 2015/2016 season, our re-entry into the A League obviously drew some attention and limelight from other teams. Early in the year we were also crowned the Bob 92 champions, a tournament that included teams from Zambia and people knew we were a stronger team than before. But the our target in the A League was to avoid relegation and then aim for a top finish so that we will be able to play in the Basketball Union of Zimbabwe national championships. We took on a board a couple of new players so that we add depth to our side and be able to compete against teams like JBC and Raiderz, said Marembe.Hornets took on board veteran forward Aggripa Masvisvi, power-forward Andrew Gonese and national team player Allan Chamhembe Zimbango, who is a forward and national team trialist. We also have Wishes Kakomo, who in my view is one of the brightest prospects for our national teams. There is also Shonhiwa Ushe, who used to play in South Africa. So I can say we have 60 percent of the national team players who were at the Afro-Basketball Championships in Tunisia and this means we are a strong side, said Marembe. When we came into the A league the executive said were targeting a top six but I do not know what made them change their mind and told us that we are now gunning for the championship so that we play at the club championships and qualify for the regional games In my view a top two finish and the championship is realistic and so far in the A League we have gone half way and we are unbeaten with on 22 points, he said.Marembe, who has been with the club for the past seven years, reckon that matches against JBC and Glen View Rockets were tough in the first half although they managed to main their unbeaten record. The mountain of a game was JBC, it was a difficult game but we managed to win and then there was the tie against the underdogs, Glen View Rockets. It was a tricky fixture but we managed to beat them thanks to the experience of our players we managed to secure during the window period of the 2015/2016 season. I hope our best will come in the second half as our players are gelling. On the court we had a problem because we are still working on gelling and with time we can get there but I am happy with the team success for far, he said.Marembe is drawing pride in that his charges have shown that they can conquer, judging by their wins at the Bob 92 Cup and at a tournament in Swaziland in June. Our first test was an intentional game in Swaziland and we won silver when the team was less than two weeks old. Now going in the second half we want to win the league and we try to work our flows and weaknesses. I would say we need to win the first seven game because that includes a fixture against JBC who are the title contenders. We are underdogs on papers but we have quality players, said Marembe.Marembe said they will not rest during the break as they will work on their flows from Richwood Courts while his skipper and shooting guard Duncan Shenje challenged his troops to play as a unit in the second half. We have individual talent but we are struggling to coordinate as a team. We need to gel all players and adjust. Our coaches are passionate and we have guys who have the zeal so that we reach our best with the new players, said Shenje.While Marembe and his team are holding their own on the court, behind the scenes chairman Sunny Mbofana and his executive are leaving no stone unturned to make the team a house hold franchise , just like their soccer team which competes in the Castle Lager Premiership. I must admit that we have transformed into be one of the best basketball franchise if not the best in Zimbabwe at the moment. And all this came because of hard work and commitment and the other factors are resources and professionalism. Our main go now is to with the name of the sponsors into the African jungle and make a name, said Mbofana.