Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter&#8212; NEWLY-crowned Castle Lager Premiership champions CAPS United are dreaming big and want to make an impact on their return to the Champions League stage, with club chief executive Cuthbert Chitima revealing an audacious bid to reach to the group stage next year. CAPS United swept all the major accolades at the Premiership awards night on Friday with Lloyd Chitembwe claiming the Coach of The Year award, while Hardlife Zvirekwi was named the Soccer Star and veteran striker Leonard Tsipa the first runner up.Tsipa also walked away with the Golden Boot Award, while FC Platinum goalkeeper Petros Mhari voted the second runner-up diluted what could have been an all CAPS United podium line-up. Now after conquering on the domestic front in a campaign that was built on a solid unbeaten run at their National Sports Stadium fortress, Chitima believes it is time to set sights on the biggest club prize in African football the Champions League.Chitima, who was last week confirmed as the club s substantive chief executive officer, yesterday said Makepekepe now have to do their best in preparations. CAPS United have never reached the group stage of the tournament. They had three attempts in 1997, 2005 and 2006 and the best performance was twice making second round stage.In fact, CAPS United were disqualified the last time they participated in the Champions League after using improperly registered players George Martins and Gift Makoloni of Malawi in a preliminary round match against Inter Stars of Burundi.It could be a campaign the Makepekepe family would not want to be reminded of because of glitches that blighted that doomed season with some of their foreign players facing charges from Immigration officials for operating without work permits.But times have changed since then. And Chitima yesterday sounded positive. The CAPS United chief executive said his immediate task is to put together vigorous plans to mobilise sponsorship for the club in light of the difficult economic environment. The immediate plan is to put things in order in terms of sponsorship to make sure that we have a successful campaign in the Champions League next year. We want to be as competitive as we can, but we are not setting ourselves daunting targets. Probably if we can reach the group stage I think we will have done well, said Chitima.Makepekepe last week indicated their seriousness by revamping their board of directors which incorporated the shareholders Farai Jere, Nhamo Tutisani and Lewis Uriri. They also roped in marketing expert Hannah Wright in a board that will initially be co-chaired by the returning Andy Hodges and Uriri.Makepekepe are expected to put into motion their preparations this week with a meeting between the chief executive officer Chitima and coach Lloyd Chitembwe on the cards. We have already sent in our papers for club registration and I don t see us having problems meeting the deadline for the submission of our squad. We are hoping to retain most of our players and I don t anticipate challenges in that aspect. I am sure we are going to have a meeting with the coach this week when he should tell us what his plans are and which players he wants to beef up the team with, said Chitima. Makepekepe have had a brilliant season in which they won the championship after 11 years of waiting.They capped the feat on Friday night when their Warriors defender Zvirekwi e was crowned the best in the Premiership. Makepekepe also have left-back Ronald Pfumbidzai among the Soccer Stars finalists. CAPS United s achievements have left their history-making coach a very excited man.The coach, who led Makepekepe on their last participation in the Africa safari when they took part in the second-tier CAF Confederation Cup in 2010, however, is not rushing into revealing his off-season plans.Makepekepe then had a bright start winning against Mbabane Highlanders, Moroka Swallows and Warri Wolves of Nigeria, only to fall to Edward Sadomba s Al Hilal at the group stage play-offs. Chitembwe yesterday said he was still basking in the glory of his team s successes. We have had a good season as CAPS United and I am happy with what we achieved. It s a reflection of the amount of work put in this season by the players and all the stakeholders involved with the club. For now let s savour the moment as CAPS United and I am sure the time will come to talk about the Champions League preparations. Naturally, any coach would want to take this opportunity to strengthen his squad, but it s not something that is done overnight. We would need to sit down and critically analyse our team and see which areas need beefing up, said Chitembwe.The former Zimbabwe midfielder who became the first to win the championship with CAPS United as player and coach, attributed the achievement to Divine power and team work. He also heaped praises on Soccer Star of the Year Zvirekwi. I am happy to get the award (Coach of the Year) but to me individual awards do not mean much since football is teamwork. I believe in the team because we work collectively to achieve. But I am very excited for Hardy. These are just the benefits of hard work. This guy is a joy to work with and I am always certain that he will not disappoint me. He is a player destined for greatness as long as he continues to work hard, said Chitembwe.