President Mugabe shares a lighter moment with legislators before delivering his State of the Nation Address before Parliament in Harare yesterdayZvamaida Murwira: Senior ReporterPresident hails SI64, growth plansGovernment has introduced measures to promote local content requirements across all economic sectors in line with Zim-Asset and the 10-Point Plan, President Mugabe has said. He said the major objective was to increase local capacity, create a skilled workforce and become a competitive supplier base in sectors such as agro-processing, mining, manufacturing, construction and tourism.The Head of State and Government and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces said this while delivering his State of the Nation Address in Parliament yesterday.Measures taken by the Government, said the President, included promulgating legal instruments protecting local industry, agricultural input support to farmers, improving ease of doing of business, pursuing social contract and curriculum review in schools among others. The recently gazetted Statutory Instrument 64 of 2016 has already started to bear fruit by improving the effective use of foreign exchange, and in enhancing local production, thereby reducing import dependence. A number of local companies in the plastics, packaging and food manufacturing sector, that include Tregers, Nampak, Proplastics and several others have been the immediate beneficiaries of Statutory Instrument 64 of 2016. Turning to agriculture, the President said 300 000 tonnes of maize had been imported with 200 000 delivered to the Grain Marketing Board depots by farmers. Meanwhile, the private sector has also supported Government by importing 25 000 tonnes. Add to this the amount of $360 million for grain importation pledged by our development partners. I wish to appreciate and thank the private sector and development partners who have joined hands with Government to ensure that our people get sufficient food supplies. The President said Government had introduced the Command Agriculture special maize and small grains production programmes targeting a minimum of two million tonnes of maize from AI, A2 models and communal farmers. Government also introduced the Presidential Inputs Scheme to support 800 000 communal farmers with a view to revitalising agricultural productivity.President Mugabe said mining performed positively, buoyed by favourable market prices, especially those of precious metals. He said tourism continued to register tremendous growth and development as 2,5 million tourists were forecast to come to Zimbabwe owing to the peace and tranquillity the country enjoyed. During the first half of 2016, Zimbabwe recorded a total of 902 435 tourist arrivals, receiving significant increase from Asia and America, said President Mugabe.The President paid tribute to Zimbabweans for their love for peace saying they had endured economic hardships since Government embarked on the land reform programme. I wish to commend them for their resilience, and urge them to cherish the peace and tranquillity that continues to be the envy for many. Let us continue to find national pride in our core values of unity, hard work and freedom. But lest we forget, let us pray to the Almighty to graciously open the heavens for more rain this season, said President Mugabe.He said Government was concerned by gender based violence particularly against women and girls. In response, Zimbabwe Republic Police and courts have collaborated in establishing an elaborate multi-sectoral gender based violence mechanism. Victim friendly systems are determined to fight gender based violence in all its forms, said President Mugabe.The event was attended by captains of industry and diplomats, among others.