Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter NEWBOYS NGEZI Platinum Stars president Stanley Segula feels the Premiership League title can be won by his side and they will launch an ambitious bid to get it in their second season in the top-flight league next year. The Ngezi side finished seventh in their debut season after making a strong challenge in the second half of the season in which they also won the Chibuku Super Cup under coach Tonderai Ndiraya. When we appointed Ndiraya, we gave him the target to make sure that the team survived relegation. The team then went on to win the Chibuku Cup and finished in the top eight and that has made us believe that we can do better, said Segula. This season we want to finish in the top four. If we say in the top four I know what we mean and what will happen. It can be the title. We are, however, not going to give Ndiraya any pressure but instead we are going to avail all the necessary resources so that he gets all the players he wants. The Stars won the country s most prestigious knock-out tournament and it gave them the ticket to represent Zimbabwe in the CAF Confederation Cup.They beat FC Platinum in the Chibuku Super Cup final and they have already started another race with the platinum miners. Ngezi are chasing the signature of Bulawayo City captain Xolisani Moyo who is also on the Zvishavane side s radar.Ndiraya s side has also targeted Dynamos right back Godknows Murwira whose contract will expire at the end of the month.Qadr Amin, who was set to join Ngezi at the beginning of the season before deciding to sign for How Mine, is likely to be part of the Stars team next season.The experienced left-back was among the players who attended the club s awards ceremony on Friday night amid indications that a deal has already been done.Ngezi skipper Liberty Chakoroma was the biggest winner at the awards after scooping both the Player of the Season and the Players Player of the Season awards.Forward Donald Teguru was voted the Most Improved Player while 19-year-old Warriors fringe goalkeeper Nelson Chadya walked away with the Rookie of the Year award.