Some people ride motorcycles for fun while others use them for transportTawanda Marwizi Lifestyle Correspondent &#8212; The floods that hit Muzarabani community affected road networks making it difficult for vehicles to navigate the area. So bad are the roads in the valley that some transport operators have withdrawn their services from the area.Motorcycles have become the only reliable mode of transport for the community. Sometimes the motorcycles carry more than three people with no helmets and most of the motorcyclists do not have the required Class Three driver s licence. It is a danger to lives.Daniel Muchera, a villager in Chiwenga, said motorcycles have become part of their life. We all benefit from these motorcycles. Most people are earning a living from it and it has become part of our lives here. The only challenge is the little experience of some of the motorcyclists and several people have been injured, said Muchera.Despite these dangers, people have accepted the reality of risking their lives in order to visit relatives and do business in places around the valley. A local teacher at Chadereka Primary school said she is a victim of the inexperienced motorcyclists. They are not experienced. Last week I almost broke my leg after being involved in an accident. The roads are bad and sometimes they cannot control them (motorcycles) well, she said.They have no option but to depend on the motorcycles since it is almost 28 kilometres to connect to the main road from the school. That is where we can get a bus to Muzarabani Growth Point, otherwise we have no option here, she added.They are being charged exorbitant fares. For that distance of 28km we are charged about $6 and we have no option, she said.In Chiwonde they use the same mode to go to Mozambique which is few kilometres away. Muranga Gumbochuma a village head said people cross to the neighbouring country using motorcycles as it is the only means of fast transport in the area at the moment. We are at the edge of Muzarabani district and buses do not come here. This has become our life. People go there to do menial jobs using motorcycles though a number of accidents have been recorded, he said.Taurai Maguna a motorcyclist said he fends for his extended family through the cycling business. He bought his motor cycle about a year ago. The roads here are bad and people can t walk to far away places on foot. We have been having good business and our families are surviving on that, he said.On a normal day he gets about $20 from the business. He was not willing to comment on the experience of the motorcyclists. That much I don t know but people just go and buy these motorbikes especially after selling cotton. Some may have licences some might not have, but that is not the issue at the moment, said Maguna.Another motorcyclist who plies the Chiwenga-Gumbochuma route said people have been satisfied with their service. Pregnant women, teachers and nurses rely on these motorcycles. Due to poor road networks in this area we do not have any other means of transport, he said.&nbsp;