Morgan TsvangiraiZvamaida Murwira and Julia Mugadzaweta&#8212; MDC-T leader Mr Morgan Tsvangirai has admitted that his councillors, particularly in Harare, are corrupt and is considering firing them if the scourge does not stop. Delivering a Christmas message to the opposition party structures in Harare yesterday, Mr Tsvangirai warned the councillors that he would expel them the same way he did the Chitungwiza municipality where the entire council was fired for corruption. I want to warn Harare City Council, that they must decisively deal with this cancer (corruption) both among the councillors and the Harare City Council staff at Town House because it is important to deal with corruption. This party does not tolerate corruption. That is why years back we had to dismiss the whole Chitungwiza council because of corruption. Harare (city council) you are warned, said Mr Tsvangirai.His admission vindicated Government s crackdown on several MDC-T dominated council in which Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Saviour Kasukuwere and his predecessor Dr Ignatious Chombo expelled some councillors from the opposition party.Last year, Minister Kasukuwere fired the entire Gweru council for corruption after an audit report revealed some irregularities. Mr Tsvangirai said he would rein in his son Edwin following reports that the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission was investigating him over irregular award of tender for water chemical company with links to him. I want to assure you that l will not tolerate any of my children or family to use my name to exploit the opportunity created by my name to engage in corrupt activities, said Mr Tsvangirai.In his address, Mr Tsvangirai criticised Government s economic empowerment programme in which it has been distributing residential stands to the youths. Mr Tsvangirai said Government should not give residential stands to youths because they had no money to build. Why should the young and unemployed individuals be given stands? Munopa vana vadiki haana kana basa haana kana nebhurukwa kana chii, anovaka nei; the best they can do is build shacks, said Mr Tsvangirai.