Sekuru Tauzeni Mujaji in his healing hut . . . Chipinge healer struggles to feed 100+ childrenKingstone Mapupu Features WriterSekuru Tauzeni Mujaji (86) of Chipinge, near the Manicaland and Masvingo boundary in Zimbabwe, is a man of traditional ethos and a strong believer in child bearing as a sign of virility. With 10 wives and more than 100 children, the traditional healer s homestead is a hive of activity and movement at any time of the day. His homestead resembles a school yard during break time.Sekuru Mujaji s eldest wife is 60, while the youngest 30.His wives include Mavis Manjonjonjo, Chiraswa Ganje, Makanani Magojo, Locky Ngwenya, Fathewani Ndlovhu, Idah Mashava, Loice Mavheneka, Margarate Ndlovu and Esterry Makhuza.His neighbours say, at any time it is difficult not to see either a pregnant woman or an infant in his yard.Nevertheless, Sekuru Mujaji is proud of his large family, describing it as the ideal sign of male prowess. Real men are seen by having large families and I have no intentions of stopping as long as I am physically able to have children, he said.The realities brought by his large family are difficult to sustain in these tough economic times. He claims they use 50 kilogrammes of mealie-meal per day and 20 kilogrammes of sugar per day.His idea of continuing to grow the family is not sitting well with his wives who are questioning the rationale behind his obsession with children. We are living a difficult life here, the food we have is rarely enough, said one of the wives.Of all the children, few had shoes and the wives say most of them have not had the opportunity to attend school.Sekuru Mujaji poses with some of his wives and childrenSekuru Mujaji acknowledges that things are tough at the moment, but he will not be deterred from his goal to grow the clan. I do not know all their names and I cannot match every child to their mother. I am mostly concerned with growing our lineage, said Sekuru Mujaji.He says he could have had more wives at his homestead, if the other 10 women who left him had stayed. Of all his wives, only one, who was his first died.Despite losing 12 of his children and two grandchildren, his family is still big.Mujaji who is Mozambican, says there was a time when he was able to feed his family without any stress, but the changing times are driving his prospects to the negative. Since I came to Zimbabwe in 1980, I was able to take good care of my family. However, these days people no longer consult for healing as they used to and this is making life difficult for us, said Sekuru Mujaji.He says the food they produce from their two hector field, does not suffice to feed them adequately. Their family expenditure is not negligible by any measure. On a day we eat more than 50 loaves of bread and every time we drink tea more than 20 kilogrammes sugar is used. In a month we consume more than a drum of cooking oil, Sekuru Mujaji said.The Mujaji clan plays around the yardHe is worried.He says his family is on the brink of starvation if there is no intervention. My wish is that the Government would come assist in any way they can. As things stand we do not have any soap to bath or wash our clothes, he said.Of all his children 50 go to school and the rest do not attend because resources no longer permit. Some of his wives are living off assistance from their relatives and their grown children. I strive to ensure my family is well-fed and they are well provided for, but lately that has proven to be a tall order. It is not my wish to survive off handouts, but sometimes that will be the only way to eat, he said.On dry days, the family may go for two days without a proper meal. This has led to some of his children and wives to go and beg at the highway connecting Chipinge and Chiredzi. What makes matters worse is that it hasn t been raining well over the years, even farming cannot guarantee food anymore. As a man it hurts me seeing my family scrounging for food, he said.He says his clients are also not of a high economic standing and at times because he is a passionate healer, he assists them free of charge. The family is not even looking forward to the festive season as it is coming when their fortunes are not exactly in a plausible state. Like any other family, this Christmas I would have preferred to feast and buy all the delicacies befitting the season. But sadly, we do not have the money for those luxuries at the moment, Sekuru Mujaji said.He said those he assisted should remember him in these difficult times.Sekuru Mujaji refuted claims that if a female client fails to foot the bill, he takes her as a wife. People are lying that I marry my defaulting clients, I find my own women and like any other man, I put my words to good use, he said.It is not surprising while ladies are charmed by this man, his homestead shows a life that was once illuminated in comfort. There are 34 huts and quite a number of non-running cars. I am not ashamed to say that I was once a man of means, but now, my children must have forgotten the taste of meat, he said, reminiscing.Sekuru Mujaji claims that he is still able to satisfy all his wives. Herbs have been his source of strength.However, his wives hold a different opinion. They believe the man is beyond his conjugal prime.One of his wives said, Our husband has too many people to satisfy and quite honestly, he has been failing for a while . We are only staying here because of our young children. I pity the young wives who still have energy. I feel they are being short-changed, said the wife who appeared senior than others.Sekuru Mujaji is not concerned about sexually transmitted diseases because he believes his wives are faithful.Some of these women said, they have lost hope in their husband. They just hope that one day someone would come in to offer assistance before a disaster happens.Things have gotten desperate, Sekuru Mujaji extended his invitation to everyone who feels they can help, churches included.The story first appeared in the vernacular Kwayedza.