The inauguration of junior councillors which took place at Winwood College last FridayLovemore Meya Cool Lifestyle Correspondent&#8212;New Ruwa junior councillors and mayors were last Friday inaugurated at a colourful ceremony that was held at Winwood College in the satellite town. Attended by junior mayors from other towns including Harare, Chitungwiza, Mvurwi and Chinhoyi, the inauguration saw 19 students taking office for the 2017 session. Outgoing Ruwa junior mayor Boaz Chishiri of Winwood College spoke glowingly of his days in office before family, friends, school children and senior council officials. It was not easy to become a junior mayor or councillor, but a lifetime experience. I have learnt servant-hood to be able to do something not expecting to get a reward for it, said Chishiri. But it was all about meeting the heart of the needy in our communities and I would love to urge the incoming junior councillors that whenever you get into office it is not about governing but it has to be about a person with a good character. We managed to give clothes and foodstuffs to a compound in Zimre Park, this was born out of team work and good communication skills. Chinhoyi Jnr Mayor Plaxedes Gurupira of Ward 11 said she attended the event so as to support fellow councillors on their big day. I feel that there was need to come and support our fellow councillors since it is key for us to unite as a family and also to learn other things to implement in my ward, said Gurupira. It is important to note that when one assumes office, cooperation is the key and in my area I am going to work to donate sanitary wear to Good Shepard orphanage and revamp our resource centre for young children to have shelter to learn in. Winwood College incoming junior council public relations officer Nadine Muteta said they went through grooming before being inaugurated. The four-day training we went through was very challenging at Karimazondo Outdoor Centre in Marondera. It was from June 6 to 10 and for all those days we never took a bath, this was done so as to see how far we could actually endure in difficult situations. However, the training was very effective on building characters as we were taught to work as a team and besides the training, we also enjoyed the food with the catering that was on point as we sealed it with an after party. 