Morgan TsvangiraiTakunda Maodza Assistant News Editor MDC-T leader Morgan Tsvangirai, who is battling cancer of the colon, is failing to fund his medication in South Africa amid indications that he has turned to party members for donations for him to continue with treatment. He is on chemotherapy. The treatment is a long process that requires a fat pocket to sustain. MDC-T has organised what it terms 2016 presidential Dinner Dance reportedly to fundraise for Mr Tsvangirai s treatment. Organisers of the event are sending party members messages on their mobile phones, encouraging them to pay for the event. Reminder, 2016 Presidential Dinner Dance is on this week on Thursday, the 8th of December at Mabvazuva, in Msasa, Harare. Everyone is expected to have paid by Tuesday through EcoCash 0779 741552, bank transfer or cash. Thank you in advance. Dinner Committee, reads the message sent to MDC-T members.The dinner committee is understood to comprise Mr Tsvangirai s spokesperson Mr Luke Tamborinyoka, Mr Clifford Hlatshwayo and a party member only identified as Farai. A source in the party hierarchy told The Herald they were fundraising for Mr Tsvangirai and every MDC-T member had been asked to contribute. The minimum contribution is $50, while councillors are expected to fork out $100. Members of Parliament have been asked to donate $200 each. However, those with deep pockets are allowed to donate even more, said the source.Recent media reports revealed that Government was also helping fund Tsvangirai s treatment. Mr Tsvangirai lifted the lid on his illness in June. Colorectal cancer is a cancer that starts in the colon or the rectum. It occurs when cells in the body divide uncontrollably. The colon and rectum are parts of the digestive system which make up the large intestines. They absorb water and salt from the remaining food stocks after it goes through the small intestines. On the 8th of May, 2016, my Zimbabwean doctors referred me to South Africa where a further diagnosis revealed that I am suffering from cancer of the colon, said Mr Tsvangirai in June.Mr Tsvangirai was subsequently operated on in South Africa and has been on chemotherapy since then. Cancer now ranks as one of major diseases affecting many people in Zimbabwe and at some point there were suggestions to introduce a cancer levy. Yesterday Mr Tamborinyoka said no-one was forced to attend the dinner dance. No-one is forced to attend and whoever is feeding you with information is a Zanu-PF person. In any case, the event has nothing to do with Mudhara s (Tsvangirai) chemotherapy, he said.