From left . . . Diamond Platnumz, Dee Nosh and Jah Prayzah at Harare International Airport after the Tanzanian musician s arrivalSophia Chese-Msowa and Tawanda Marwizi &#8212; Visiting Tanzanian superstar Diamond Platnumz who is set to share the stage with contemporary musician Jah Prayzah tonight at Harare International Conference Centre has promised a lot of surprises at the show. The two artistes collaborated on the song Watora Mari which has become a hit in the region. Addressing a press conference in Harare yesterday, Diamond Platnumz, who has performed in several African countries said they have planned a surprise with Jah Prayzah, which they refused to hint on. We have a surprise act and we are not going to tell you how we are going to do it, we have planned something special for our fans here in Zimbabwe so the way we are going to perform is strictly a surprise, he said.He however highlighted that since working with Jah Prayzah it has been Diamond Platnumz s wish to perform in Zimbabwe. This is going to be my first time to perform in Zimbabwe and I am so happy, I have much respect for Zimbabwean musicians especially Jah Prayzah because he is one musician who uses his vernacular language when singing and I respect that, he said.The musician said he was happy that the people in Zimbabwe know most of his songs. I have seen on twitter that people here know some of my songs and will make sure our performance leaves people satisfied, he said.On the other hand Jah Prayzah, who struggled to perform the song live just after releasing his album, said tonight is going to be a different case and promised people a polished act. When I first performed that song at the album launch we didn t have enough time to rehearse and now we have rehearsed and we are ready to roll.He said their band was ready to unleash the best performance as they share stage with one of the Africa s finest musician. 2 Kings Entertainment said everything was ready for the high profile show.The promotional company director Dee Nosh said they have done their ground work. We have set everything, Diamond is here and we are expecting some fireworks at the show. We also have a number of upcoming artists who are set to perform alongside Diamond Platinumz and Jah Prayzah, he said.