Minister ChidhakwaAbigail Mawonde Herald Correspondent MINES and Mining Development Minister Walter Chidhakwa yesterday said he was in the dark why Pedstock Investments was paid $1,3 million by the Minerals Marketing Corporation of Zimbabwe, presumably for the services the agricultural company had provided to the Zimbabwe Republic Police. The Herald broke the story mid this year. MMCZ paid Pedstock acting on a directive from the Mines and Mining Development Secretary Professor Francis Gudyanga. Coincidentally, Pedstock Investments supplied and installed state-of- the-art irrigation equipment worth thousands of dollars at Prof Gudyanga s farm near Rusape.Minister Chidhakwa professed ignorance over the whole transaction when he appeared before a Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Mines and Energy chaired by Masvingo Urban legislator Dr Daniel Shumba. Pedstock, I think it is a company used by the police. To tell you the truth, I was shocked when I saw an article in the newspaper to say we have paid Pedstock. I could not understand and asked the secretary why we were paying Pedstock, he said.Minister Chidhakwa insisted he was in the dark. The police, I think they have a company where they train their people; to tell you the truth I do not know how it is structured but what I then know is that after I saw the article, I asked the secretary why we were paying an agricultural company for the support that we give to the police. So I think it is something that you will have to ask between us and the Home Affairs Ministry for you to get a clearer picture, he said. Minister Chidhakwa then asked Prof Gudyanga to tell the committee what transpired.Professor Gudyanga told the committee that the payment arrangements had been made by the South African company contracted for security services whose details he was not willing to disclose. The Ministry of Mines and Mining Development has a contract with the organisation to investigate leakages. That contract also involves the ZRP (Zimbabwe Republic Police) and the company simply used Pedstock as a conduit for the money, he said.Professor Gudyanga said the company did not have a bank account. Dr Shumba reminded Prof Gudyanga that it was on record that the money was paid in cash. He said this amounted to externalisation.Professor Gudyanga assured the committee that everything had been done aboveboard. He said he was in possession of documentary evidence. The committee demanded to know if it was coincidence that soon after MMCZ paid Pedstock, irrigation equipment was supplied and installed at Prof Gudyanga s farm.Prof Gudyanga said the company supplies equipment to various people and he was not an exception. He said he personally paid for the equipment. Prof Gudyanga said he paid a deposit and was yet to make a full payment.But Dr Shumba said Pedstock was on record confirming receiving full payment for the equipment from Prof Gudyanga.