Sports Reporter JUST a day after committing a further three years to the services of CAPS United as chairman, and being confirmed as the club s representative on the Premier Soccer League Board of Governors, leading Harare lawyer Lewis Uriri has had a change of heart and could be walking away from the game s administrative boardroom at the end of the month. Uriri, who is one of the shareholders at CAPS United, is unhappy with the cracks that have emerged among the PSL Board of Governors and believes he has been a victim of some back-biting, from some of his top-flight league s leaders, in their boardroom battle against ZIFA.The CAPS United boss announced recently he would be leaving football administration, at the end of this month, only for the Green Machine president, Farai Jere, to say his club s chairman was going nowhere and give him a further three years at the helm of the champions.But Uriri believes he has been a victim of some back-biting, within the PSL Board of Governors, and has now decided to disengage himself from domestic football. (ZIFA) Congress met on 19th November 2016 in a special session. Congress reached certain unanimous positions. Governors gave their thoughts and contributions. I contributed to the discussions like everybody else, Uriri said in correspondence with his fellow Board of Governors which have been seen by The Herald. I advised on that day, that I had planned to leave CAPS United FC and mainstream football administration by the end of the year. I had advised that I was leaving in May 2016. I was persuaded to stay on until the end of the year. On the 19th November 2016 one Governor suggested that as we had unfinished business, perhaps the PSL should approach CAPS United to extend my tenure. I advised that the decision to leave was mine as I had not been fired, but needed to concentrate on other things. Governors asked me to reconsider the position. Incidentally, my club also asked me to consider staying on to conclude outstanding matters. Other football stakeholders made similar proposals. I decided to stay on to attend to the outstanding matters both at Club level and PSL as I believed I was doing all concerned a service. There were matters to be dealt with at ZIFA in respect of which you mandated me to be your spokesman. This was on agreed principles which required feedback to and from Governors to the Emergency Committee. I am disappointed to learn that there are some amongst us who contend that the resolutions of Congress are Uriri s baby, and that I instigated Congress to pursue a confrontational path against ZIFA. The suggestion that but for my instigation some Governors would not have voted the way they did is as dishonest as it is unfounded. Uriri said it was unfair to suggest he influenced the PSL s stance. I certainly do not have that kind of influence over Congress. In any event the suggestion that we engage ZIFA as soon as possible and that a negotiated settlement was in the best interests of football came from me, he said. Once Congress made resolutions, we should all be man enough to uphold and defend those resolutions within the parameters of reason. If one does not agree with resolutions one must speak to the contrary. One must vote the other way. One must not run away from their resolutions and blame them on others. I participated in the debate. I gave my views. I voted in a particular manner. I have no apologies to make for my views. I believe in them. I can defend them. People should not just throw mud at me and attribute to me the flattering aspect of taking Congress hostage. Should anyone, or any Club want out of the resolution, they are free to move for a rescission of the same. I have consulted with you on the WhatsApp group. I have taken into account your suggestions in the statements I have made. Very helpful and constructive suggestions have come from Governors. You will have noticed that I stopped contributing or posting anything at all on the group two days ago. This was because it became apparent that discussions on the forum were now being abused by some of us. In short we should all bear responsibility for our actions. We should not seek to justify our other interests by throwing mud at those we would have asked to do certain things. Uriri said he was now looking at moving away from the game. You will observe gentlemen, that I have copied my club president in this email. This is because having agonised over the unfair treatment I appear to be getting from some of us, my decision to stay on in football was a huge mistake, he wrote. I have my law practice as well as my other business and family interests to take of. Sports administration is a sacrifice that I have had to make. In the result, I have decided that my club president immediately assumes the Governorship of CAPS United FC. I will, as per my previous wishes, commence the process of a smooth disengagement from all football related matters at all levels of the game. I will be meeting with the CEO (Kenny Ndebele) and such members of the Emergency Committee as will be present at the PSL Awards Night (yesterday), to resolve the question of a smooth handover takeover. &nbsp;