Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter&#8212;IT was a day set aside to honour the players and coaches who guided CAPS United to the 2016 Castle Lager Premiership title, but the biggest cheer on the night was reserved for a disabled fan who brought the house down and sent some guests into tears. Augustine Kaswaurere, who walks with the aid of two clutches, is probably the biggest football fan that the Green Machine have today.And on Thursday night, at the club s awards ceremony at Harare s Rainbow Towers, Kaswaurere received the biggest cheer and sent some guests into tears, when he was honoured with the Presidential Award by CAPS United president Farai Jere.Director of ceremony, Charles CNN Mabika, told more than 200 guests, who included bankers, that the special award would go to an individual whom the CAPS United boss felt embodied the true spirit of the club in 2016.A lot of people thought it would be given to Leonard Tsipa for his 11 goals and more than 15 years of service to the Green Machine, while others also felt it could go to former club president Twine Phiri.But, instead, Jere felt Kaswaurere, who has barely missed a match which the Green Machine have played both at home and away, deserved that award, which also went with a cash prize of $500.A week ago, a Ngezi Platinum Stars fan was given $100 in honour of his dedication to the team. On Thursday night, Kaswaurere struck gold. I never expected it. I am excited. I thank Mr Jere and the board members for remembering me, remembering a disabled person like me, he said as he held back the tears. A number of people like me are always looked down upon in society. I thank God and all the fans who encouraged me to keep living my dream and supporting my team. As long as I am alive I will keep supporting CAPS United. I would also like to thank Lloyd Chitembwe for winning the championship for me after 11 years in which we endured a lot of frustration. But who is Kaswaurere, a man who has become a common feature at the CAPS United matches.He was born in a family of four boys and two girls.His other brother is unemployed and is trying to make a living in Murewa.His other two brothers are in Rafingora while another oner is late.He says despite his physical challenges, his family usually looks up to him for support. I was born like this in Guruve and I grew up in Rafingora with my parents. I then moved to Harare to look for something that would help me earn a living and be counted among other people in the country, he added.He is single but he is planning to marry his sweetheart Racheal Dzawanda ,who is also a soccer fan.But how does he get the money to travel to all the matches as he is a common sight at all CAPS United games at home and away? I sell (compact) discs for my upkeep and that is the only source of income I have. I have to make sure that I put aside money to travel to all the away matches, he said. I gets hurt when my team loses, especially to Dynamos. He has big dreams. My wish is to make money and marry Racheal and also to keep on raising money to assist the disabled people who fail to travel to watch Makepekepe games when they are playing away, says Kaswaurere.His sweetheart, interestingly, is a DeMbare fan.There are three well-known disabled Makepekepe fans in Harare and at one point another Beitbridge fan Godfrey Nhokwara donated money to them after getting touched by their plight.Kaswaurere s love for CAPS United has seen him create his own WhatsApp group, for the CAPS United fans, which he administers and there are scores of members who look forward to him to break news and lead the discussions all centred on their Green Machine.Jere, the Harare businessman who owns the Green Machine, captured the imagination of many television viewers when, after his team had staged a dramatic comeback from three goals down, in the final five minutes, to hold Dynamos to a 3-3 draw in the greatest Harare Derby of all-time, he rushed to celebrate with the disabled fans.Sundown s owner Patrice Motsepe had also done the same, when his team beat Zamalek in the first leg of the CAF Champions League final this year in Pretoria.The billionaire businessman then sponsored the fans trip to Egypt for the second leg of the showdown.But those who were at the Rainbow Towers on Thursday night will never forget the moment when it was announced that Kaswaurere had won the club s Presidential Award for his dedication towards the CAPS United cause despite the challenges that he faces in his day-to-day life.There was a deafening silence when his name was announced and, when people realised who he was, they erupted in celebrations with more than 200 guests all rising to their feet and some even shedding tears.Jere said it was more than he could take. It was very, very emotional and I m just delighted that the guests appreciated what we did because this guy is a very, very, special fan, said Jere. To us, he is more than a football supporter, he is one of us, and all the players and our coaching staff know him very well because he is always there for them. He finds great joy when we win and also gets a lot of pain when we lose but he accepts that s the way the game is, we can t win them all, but this year the team provided him with a Christmas present he is unlikely to forget in a hurry and we are humbled by his dedication to our cause. Jere said he was happy that the club had cheered Kaswaurere s spirits. For me, that is what football is all about, said the Harare businessman. This game should make a difference in our lives and I m happy that our coach Lloyd and his troops are touching a lot of lives in this country with their success. 