Swagga T &#8212; Organisers for the National School Quiz Championships (NSQC) SADC Regional Championships are optimistic of good performance as five Zimbabwean schools Prince Edward, Marist Nyanga, Peterhouse College, St Ignatius and St Johns have registered to participate at a regional tourney which started yesterday in South Africa.The local schools will join other qualifying 32 schools from six countries across SADC in five-day quiz challenge with winning schools walking away with a scholarship and qualifying for the NSQC World Series.The tourney is being held at Pearson Institute of Higher Education, Midrand, Johannesburg. In an interview with CLS, NSQC executive producer Ian Venganai said he was happy with the response from schools and all was set for the quiz competition. He said the event will be screened on Mindset DStv 319. The tournament will showcase the top 32 schools from across SADC battling it out for the coveted Thabo Mbeki NSQC Legacy Trophy, with winning high schools taking home no less than eight Pearson scholarships, he said.Venganai said the quiz competition will cover common materials from all broad curricula focusing on general knowledge based on African content, Mathematics, Sciences, Social Studies and Technology. The tournament takes the form of a televised series, with 13 nail biting edutainment episodes. It is constructed with the elements of reality television meets game show to keep all family viewership entertained and informed. The TV series will be hosted by the disciplinarian no-nonsense quiz master, who will whittle down the participants to only the cream of the crop, he said.He added that schools will compete with each other in order to qualify for a position in the quarter finals and semi-finals. The quarter finals and semi-finals open a platform for fierce competition where only 4 schools will proceed to the final round of the competition. He said the top four winners will be eligible for participation at the first NSQC World Series to be hosted in Johannesburg, South Africa from July 4 -10 next year. This prestigious occasion, the top Brainiac s will be representing SADC countries among other top 28 high schools from around the world. Our vision is to create the biggest academic sport for fun competitive learning and bring students of different races, gender or class together to celebrate academic excellence. The four day tournament will incorporate Thabo Mbeki Foundation Leadership Camp that will prepare and engage the young students beyond the quiz competition.The content of the camp is aimed at inspiring and empowering the participants to become effective leaders in society and critical thinkers in business.NSQC is sponsored and supported by Ian P. Universal, Institute of Management and Strategy (IMAS), Cronge Naidoo Shange Incorporated and E-fundo.&nbsp;