Innocent Choga Fitness &#8212; There is no doubt that aerobic classes are a great way of exercising not only in terms of physical fitness, but social fitness as well, because a lot of long lasting friendships and business networks are formed during these classes. In most gyms in Harare, the clock striking 7:30am, 2:00pm and 6:30pm signals the end of peak hours. Pay a visit to the changing rooms and sauna baths in the various gyms at these times and the conversations you are most likely to hear are reviews on the just ended aerobic session. They range from rave reviews: That was a great session , The instructor was on fire today , to disappointments Lousy session , This particular instructor must be changed and so on.I have often wondered what it takes to be a good aerobics instructor and what constitutes a great aerobic session that pleases the various types of client s. The clientele includes seasoned and highly fit individuals mixed up with new unfit clients.I had a chat on this issue with fitness enthusiast Alex Matemadombo (55). Matemadombo is a seasoned aerobics instructor. He is a former bank worker who rose through the ranks to managerial position and then left the banking sector in 2003 to do his own things and pursue his passion as an aerobics instructor.Matemadombo had started working out in the gym in 1994 when his former bank boss went out of the country leaving him two months subscriptions to attend a local gym. He ended up getting hooked. He had been a sports enthusiast, having participated in a lot of sporting disciplines including swimming and rugby to mention a few.He became an aerobics instructor by default. When a certain instructor failed to turn up for a session, the Godfather of Fitness Kays Rushika who was a manager at the gym challenged him to instruct the class. He has never looked back ever since that time.Matemadombo says he is not tied to any particular gym. He prefers being a freelance instructor taking classes at numerous gyms and meeting different people.He says through experience he has learnt how to instruct aerobic classes that are made up of participants with different levels of fitness. He says he makes a psychological analysis of the clients needs at a particular time and he trains them accordingly. He says some people like tough workouts but some do not, so he has to strike a balance and this also depends on the clients level of competence and ages.According to Matemadombo anyone who attends his aerobic sessions is not a faceless participant. He takes note of everyone and whenever he sees new clients he takes time to ask them about their health and fitness status. He says he will not hesitate to advice those he feels are not fit to take it easy. If it is a step class he will have them start without the step up boxes. Matemadombo says it takes only 2 to 3 weeks for new clients to catch the moves and fit into the groove.He says the instructor should not be the main actor, trying to impress clients with difficult moves, but should be watching how the clients are coping and tuning up the session to match their level of competency. He says he tries to avoid overwhelming participants with complex moves and he applies such moves where they are required. The idea is to add a participant with every class and not to lose one with every session.Most fitness enthusiast I talk to these days are talking about cross fit and Matemadombo is not an exception. He says aerobics are moving toward cross fit because one can be innovative with cross fit. He says the body gets used to doing the same things and ends up producing little results, therefore he finds it necessary to regularly change the way he conducts his sessions. He is still doing step though, but he does pump step, which involves the use of small weights in combination aerobic step moves, working the whole body.Matemadombo says the total clientele of most gyms is made up of seventy percent aerobic participants. He says a lot of people are now aware of the weight related disease like diabetes and blood pressure. But he laments that in most cases adults are joining the gyms and sticking to exercise programmes only after they have been warned and instructed to do so by doctors and only a few individuals take the initiative.He says weight loss among individuals who are obese and conditioning for individuals living with conditions is possible, provided they realise that there are two sides to the coin ; exercise on one side and diet on the other. He says there is need to know that conditions arise not only from lifestyles but some genetically inherited. Even such individuals report positive feedback after a few weeks of exercising.He says it is amazing how most exercisers positively encourage each other. Just exercising itself will ease anxiety and stress. It instills better moods thereby increasing self confidence in individuals.Matemadombo is married to Grace and they have four children, three boys and one girl. The oldest is 27 years of age and the youngest is 16.I would like to set the facts right and fully acknowledge Sr Sister Anastasia Gorejena, who along with Anna Miti is one of my sources of information in an article published on the 17th of December. The article is about the importance of exercise for individuals living with HIV and AIDS. Sr Anastasia Gorejena is a Matron training nurses at Brunapeg, in Matabeleland South. Sr Anastasia Gorejena is a Roman Catholic nun and should not be confused with Anna Miti who is a broadcasting personality.Email:innocentfchoga@gmail.com Innocent Choga is a six time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport.