TENNIS Zimbabwe have a named a 12-member team that will represent the country at the ITF/CAT Southern Africa Junior Championships in Windhoek, Namibia, in January next year. The young players hope to qualify for the African Junior Championships and earn points for the Confederation of African Tennis rankings.The championships will run from January 8 to 18. Previously the event included the Under-12s but the format has since changed with the targeted age-groups being the Under-14s and the Under-16s.TZ administrator, Cliff Nhokwara, said the competition presents the youngsters with a learning opportunity and they would want to see them making it for the AJC.The championships will run from January 8 to 18. Previously the event included the Under-12s but the format has since changed with the targeted age-groups being the Under-14s and the Under-16s.TZ administrator, Cliff Nhokwara, said the competition presents the youngsters with a learning opportunity and they would want to see them making it for the AJC.Zimbabwe are going to field six players in each age-group three boys and an equal number for the girls unlike in the past when they had two players as the tournament also involved the Under-12s. Now we no longer have the Under-12s but the Under-14s and Under-16s. So the numbers have increased (for the two age-groups), we used to send two players in each category but now we are sending three. So instead of four players we now have six in the Under-14s and Under-16s. This is all developmental but they will also get the Confederation of African Tennis rankings, so that beyond the ITF points we also rank our players in Africa, to say these are the top Under-14 and Under-16 (players) in Africa, Nhokwara said.TeamUnder-14 Boys: Tinashe Taruberekera, Thabo Ncube, Anesu Kwirirai. Under-14 Boys: Ethan Sibanda, Taona Muhwandagara, Lyle Zaloumis.Under-14 Girls: Rufaro Magarira, Clare Machisa, Tsitsi Mahere. Under-16 Girls: Nandi Munyulwa, Vimbai Moyo, Takudzwa Mawisire The Herald Sports.