A HELPING HAND . . . IAAF lecturer Torsten Tesch from Germany goes through a high level jumps seminar at Belvedere Technical Teachers College in Harare last weekEllina Mhlanga: Sports ReporterNATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe have implored participants at the various workshops held by IAAF lecturer Torsten Tesch in Harare recently to put into practise what they learnt. Tesch, from Germany was in the country for two weeks. He focused on talent identification and development, kids athletics and wrapped up his busy schedule with a three-day seminar in jumps at Belvedere Technical Teachers College last week.NAAZ director for coaching, talent identification and development, Lisimati Phakamile said it was an interesting programme with detailed courses that he believes can turnaround the fortunes for Zimbabwe if implemented. We started with talent identification and its development, where we looked at a number of critical points that we in Zimbabwe need to look at and embrace. We went down as far as where do we identify talent, how do we pick it and nurture it. Participants looked at different trends from different European countries, how do they do it and we also designed our own here in Zimbabwe, on how to identify talent and nurture it. We also looked at different means of testing athletes, that s testing for physical fitness, testing for potential athleticism and mobility means. Then we looked at multilateral training methods of identified talent, of which I believe this was vital and important for coaches here in Zimbabwe. We also went on to look at kids athletics. Kids athletics is very important in this new era and curriculum in Zimbabwe. It has been put in the physical education and sports syllabus in the new curriculum that is being rolled out by the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education. So I want to implore them to go out there to their schools and teach what they learnt in the courses because it is exactly what is in the syllabus, said Phakamile.On the jumps seminar which include pole vault, high jump, long jump and triple jump, they were looking at strength development and the modern techniques.After spending two weeks working with the local athletics family, Tesch said some of the areas Zimbabwe might need to look at in the future include bridging the gaps between the different age-groups for a more efficient development programme. What might be some of the future topics for Zimbabwe athletics is to close the gaps between these different age classes. I think there is strong focus on the age classes each person is working in. But when you think of developing sports performance, you have to think of these trends from kids up to adult sport and it is a structure development from kids sports to adult sports, said Tesch.The German expatriate also spoke about talent identification and said they looked at different scientific approaches to come up with ideal ideas for Zimbabwe. What we did is we summed up the scientific knowledge about it. When you think about the scientific knowledge, there is not one right or wrong. There are different systems to approach and all of them do make some compromises. So we have checked out other systems for Australia, South Africa and Europe. How they try to approach this and then we try to sum up ideas that might be possible for Zimbabwe, said Tesch.Meanwhile, NAAZ have released their 2017 calendar and some of the major events lined up include the IAAF World Under-18 championships in July, in Kenya, World Championships scheduled for London in August and the World Cross Country Championships. Zimbabwe will also host next year s Southern Africa Region Senior Championships in Harare.Tagara said it s going to be a busy schedule with the association also lining up several local competitions to keep their athletes active and camps for the junior and youths. In July, our youths are going for the World Under-18 Championships in Kenya. We have already started our preparations. We also have the World Championships in London and the World Cross Country championships in Uganda. Those are the major international events we have. We are hosting the Southern Africa Region Senior championships in June, in Harare, which is a major competition because we will be looking at qualifying for the World Championships. Locally we have loaded the calendar such that almost every week we have a competition of which the association will sponsor two per month. Nash competition will complement our efforts. We have pencilled camps as early as January. We are targeting three major camps for juniors and youths, so that we work not only on qualification but to have an impact in Kenya, said Tagara.Tagara said they are also looking at incentivising some of the track and field events starting with the inter-provincials and the regional meet in June. We are trying to move in with sponsorship for track and field athletes for monetary prizes just like what we have for road races. That s at the inter-provincials and the Southern Africa Region Championships. The idea is to incentivise the athletes because juniors are leaving track and field to pursue road races because that s where the money is. We have already secured sponsorship for one of the events, said Tagara.IAAF have already released the qualification standards for the World Under-18 Championships and the qualification period is from October 3, 2016 to July 2017.Director in charge of junior development Silas Muringani called for early preparations for next year s World Championships.Some of the junior athletes are already in Angola for the African Union Sports Council Region Five Under-20 Youth Games, which are also a qualifying event. We have got athletes we know will qualify. The Angola Games are a qualifying event. I am happy the association has started the season well with the coming in of German expert Torsten Tesch. We had to go through some sessions of different courses. We had to look at periodisation. So having gone through that and also given the time we have and the closing date for qualifying, we have ample time to prepare. The association is also doing well trying to rope in a number of sponsors for track and field events. That will help motivate the athletes, said Muringani.