Christmas is for the parents. At least you d think so, given the way mums and dads go all misty-eyed over those long-gone trips to Santa s grotto. Then their little cherubs become hulking, sulking teens, and it s easy to think Christmas is over for good. But there s no reason why Christmas with older children can t be just as much fun, says parenting expert Anita Naik. You just have to re-invent it a little bit. So here s how . . .A family affair Don t force teens to join in: if they refuse to go on the family outing to choose a tree, don t cajole or argue, says Anita. Just leave them at home. I guarantee they ll be less adamant when they realise you ll carry on without them. Instead, flatter them into new roles. Pay older children to make canap s and wait on guests at your festive gatherings, says food writer Beverley Glock. It ll mean less work for you and pocket money for them. It s a win-win situation. Eat and be merry Nothing brings back that lost eight-year-old faster than chocolate, so for a party-piece pudding they ll remember for years, treat the family to a chocolate fountain. Serve with strawberries, marshmallows, fudge, bananas, kiwis, profiteroles and pineapples &#8211; and see those eyes light up. Great outdoors To supercharge the traditional Boxing Day walk, instruct all your guests to bring boots and coats (no slackers allowed) and pack a flask of cocoa and a box of chocolate-coated, fluffy marshmallows for melt-in-the-mouth, cockle-warming luxury. It s also worth scouring the local paper for fun spectators events such as Santa dash fun runs. Let the games begin Think teens are too cool to join in? Think again. Beneath that thin shell of indifference, they re as keen as ever. All it takes is the right game, so challenge your guests to bring along something new. Perform an act of kindness Working together as a family to do something kind for others can be a great way to remember the true meaning of Christmas. Donate gifts to a family in need or put up Christmas lights for a single parent or an elderly neighbour. Work together to identify something you can do as a family. You can even make it a year-round venture. Save up your change in a jar and then as the holidays approach, decide how to give the money to someone who needs it more than you do. &#8211; ONLINE.