LONDON. &#8211; Antonio Conte s Chelsea juggernaut rolls back into action against West Bromwich Albion tomorrow with the English Premier League soccer leaders chasing a ninth consecutive win. Chelsea produced the most impressive display of their winning streak last weekend when they came from behind to win 3-1 at Pep Guardiola s Manchester City.They have not won nine successive league games within the same season since 2007 and ahead of West Brom s visit, Marcos Alonso has urged his team-mates not to let their level drop. Winning game after game gives you confidence, but you have to keep working, the Spanish wing-back told the Chelsea website. The results give you confidence to work in this way, though. We have got to use this momentum of the last eight league games and go on to have another good game against West Brom now. While most of Chelsea s title rivals have been in European action this week, Conte s side have once again had a full week to prepare for the visit of Tony Pulis s side.It is 32 years since West Brom last won at Chelsea, but they have drawn on two of their last three visits and have climbed to seventh in the table on the back of a four-game unbeaten run. (Chelsea) are on a great run of form, West Brom manager Pulis told the club website. The manager s come in and he s changed things around and got the players playing the way they can. It s a wonderful, wonderful squad of players. But we ll go there and do our best. Guardiola s City will look to kick their title challenge back into gear when they visit unravelling champions Leicester City today.The ill-tempered defeat at Chelsea s hands left a mark, with Sergio Aguero and Fernandinho picking up red cards that will keep them out until after Christmas.City have slipped to fourth place in the table, four points below Chelsea, and although Leicester are toiling in 16th place, Pablo Zabaleta is taking nothing for granted. Always it s a difficult place to go. Even if they are not doing great in the domestic competition, they are still a good team, very competitive, said the City right-back. It is going to be a tough game. We need to win and get three points after the big defeat last weekend to stay in the fight for the title. While City have won their last three away matches in the league, they have won just four of their last 14 games in all competitions as Guardiola continues to search for a durable winning formula.His problems pale in comparison, however, beside those of Leicester manager Claudio Ranieri, who saw a second-string side trounced 5-0 by Porto in the Champions League on Wednesday. With seven defeats already, Leicester s league form is as alarming as last season s was astonishing and has left them just two points above the relegation zone.Second-place Arsenal, three points behind Chelsea, can provisionally take over at the summit if they beat Stoke City by two goals or more at the Emirates Stadium today.Alexis Sanchez s hat-trick fired Arsenal to a 5-1 win at West Ham United last weekend, which was followed by a superb 4-1 win at Basel in the Champions League, but manager Arsene Wenger feels there is more to come. I feel the team is on the way upwards, he said. But we have as well to show that first of all we can improve, that we have the desire to improve as a team, and as well, that we can repeat the performances week in, week out. Stoke is another challenge for us that we can reset, refocus and continue our development and take the points. Like Chelsea, third-placed Liverpool have had a week off to prepare for tomorrow s home game with West Ham.Manchester United, in contrast, entertain Tottenham Hotspur tomorrow just two days after returning from a gruelling Europa League trip to play Ukrainian side Zorya Luhansk.Jose Mourinho s side, currently sixth, trail fifth-place Spurs by six points and will have a mountain to climb in terms of Champions League qualification if they lose at Old Trafford.Fixtures (all 5pm unlessotherwise stated)Today: Watford v Everton (2:30pm); Arsenal v Stoke City; Burnley v Bournemouth; Hull City v Crystal Palace; Swansea City v Sunderland; Leicester City v Manchester City (7:30pm).Tomorrow: Chelsea v West Bromwich Albion (2pm); Manchester United v Tottenham Hotspur (4:15pm); Southampton v Middlesbrough (4:15pm); Liverpool v West Ham United (6:30pm).Tuesday: Everton v Arsenal (9:45pm); Bournemouth v Leicester City (9:45pm). &#8211; AFP.