Samantha Chigogo: Herald CorrespondentZimbabweans should brace for heavy rains with thunderstorms expected in northern parts of the country, the Meteorological Services Department (MSD) has said. Although there have been significant rains and storms in some parts of the country, the erratic nature of the rains has not turned out to be what people expected. Model projections are predicting that heavier rain (in excess of 40 mm in 24 hours) is forecast in many areas of the country from Friday 9 December to Monday 12 December, they said. Mostly light rain showers and thunderstorms are expected in the northern areas of the country as well as in Manicaland Province. The department said some areas would experience heavy downpours and flash floods. Expectations are that there may also be localised sharp downpours and therefore, there is always potential for flash flooding to occur in these areas, MSD said. MSD is again forecasting light rain showers and thunderstorm activity over the country and these will, however, be concentrated in Matabeleland North province, Midlands Province, all Mashonaland provinces as well as Manicaland Province. The department said dry conditions were still evident in some parts of the country. In Masvingo and Matabeleland South provinces on the other hand, these areas are forecast to be largely dry and hot, MSD said. However, residual moisture coupled with high daytime temperatures may cause some light rain-showers and isolated thunderstorms. The department said the country was generally under the influence of dry, hot and humid weather hence the conditions were unfavourable to meaningful downpours. Residual moisture coupled with high daytime temperatures resulted in light rain and thunderstorms in Mashonaland West Province (Chinhoyi Met Office 13mm) and Mashonaland Central Province (Henderson Research Station 9mm), northern areas of Manicaland Province (Rusape Met Office 11mm) as well as Harare Metropolitan Province (Belvedere Met Office 7mm) on the 28 and 29 November 2016. However, since last Saturday (December 3) the country has been experiencing shades of rains as a result of some moisture that started entering the country through Matabeleland provinces spreading rapidly to cover all Mashonaland provinces, Matabeleland North Province, Midlands Province, Harare Metropolitan province as well as Manicaland Province to the east.The department said the rainfall amounts from the storms were, however, very light with Hwange Meteorological Office measuring only 9mm followed by Harare International Airport that had 6mm.