JAH CURETawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent &#8212; Jamaican musician Jah Cure who arrived in the country on Tuesday is set to illuminate the stage at the Harare International Conference Centre tonight, when he serenades reggae fans in what promises to be a high octane gig. Despite having only three albums to his name, Jah Cure has risen to prominence largely among dancehall fans. His blend of music includes conscious and lovers rock, with his most popular tine Call on Me, likely to be on demand by the fans who would be in the auditorium at the HICC tonight.Jah Cure has also vowed to give the fans a moment to savour when he takes to the stage. Speaking to local journalists on Wednesday the musician said he was on a mission and would make sure Zimbabweans are satisfied with his act.Jah Cure has also had his brushes with the law in his native Jamaica and some of his music has been inspired by the time he spent in jail and said after his incarceration he told himself that, he was on a mission . Sometimes if you are a leader and got hindrances you have to find a solution. The jail life has inspired me to be strong, I learnt a lot while I was in jail, he said.Fans will also no doubt be relishing the moment when he sings one his melodious songs Every Corner I turn which has a huge appeal to both men and womenOhhhhYeah yeahhhh, yeahhhWoohhhhhh wooooohhhCure again yeahYeahhhhhhChorus&lt;http://urbanislandz.com&gt;Every corner I turnI see your faceEverywhere that you goI m at that placeI just cant escape you, no coincidenceWhen I think that it s overYou ll see mi again,OhhhhhhhhhhhSee mi aga-a-a-a-a-inCure also underlined the significance that he is attaching to this concert when he tweeted yesterday that All my fans are going crazy for this historic event tomorrow (today). This will be the show of the year! With Busy Signal, Roman Virgo, and Morgan Heritage having trilled and set the bar on their tours of Zimbabwe, Jah Cure will no doubt have his work cut out tonight.He expressed interest in working with Zimbabwean musicians. He however admitted that he had not made any research on local music. Jah Cure said he has only three albums and rest was released when he was in jail without his authority. I have three albums Ghetto Life , World Cry and The Cure . Anything out of those three is something else. Some took advantage of my incarceration to release fake albums in my name, he said.He promised his fans, a fun filled performance, where he is expected to sample his greatest hits, which would leave lasting impressions. Winky D who is one of the supporting acts said he would be playing songs from his album Gafa Futi for the first time. This will be my performance of Gafa Futi at a show of such gratitude. We promise to give the best, he said.Urban groover, Trevor Dongo was also unveiled as part of the supporting acts. Organisers 2 Kings Entertainment spokesperson, Dee Nosh dismissed as doctored a list that had gone viral on different social media platforms claiming local artistes Ammara Brown, Zimdancehall singer, Killer T and hip-hop artiste, Takura have been included as supporting acts. The other artistes, who were voted together with the released names, will remain a secret and will be unveiled on the concert day. Jah Cure is long on potential but he is still to get the international acclaimed status of the likes of the late greats, Gregory Isaacs, the Dennis Brown and John Holt who continue to retain the lovers rock titles. Some of his hits include, Call on Me, Set Me Free and All of Love, which is a cover version of John Legend.