OIiver Mtukudzi and Suluman ChimbetuArts Reporter &#8212; Superstar Oliver Mtukudzi has been given a task to play father s role at Suluman Chimbetu s wedding at Zimbali Gardens in Greendale on Saturday. Sulu has decided to take a wholesome approach to the wedding to incorporate both personal and professional relatives in the programme.His uncle Allan Chimbetu will take father s role on a biological family level while Tuku will represent the showbiz family and will also be on a table reserved for fathers at the wedding.Sulu s publicist Joe Local Nyamungoma said since the death of Sulu s father Simon, the Dendera musician has always looked up to Tuku for fatherly grooming.He has sought guidance from the superstar on several issues and their bond grew stronger when Tuku s only son Sam passed away. At numerous occasions, Sulu has referred to Tuku as his father who gives him direction in music and also personal issues. It is no longer a secret that Sulu takes Tuku as his father. That is the reason why Tuku will sit with Sulu s relatives that would be representing fathers of the family. People should not be surprised when they see Mudhara Tuku among Sulu s relatives. He has played a big role in the musician s life, said Nyamungoma.He said Tuku will also be given a chance to speak about his relationship with his son over the past years. Sulu has done two collaborations with Tuku namely Kwedu and Idah Nhoro .The two musicians have also shared the stage many times. Tuku will give a speech about how he has worked with Sulu. He will tell people how he has nurtured Sulu and how their relationship has grown over the years. Of course, representing Sulu s biological father would be his uncle Allan and he will also play his role according to procedures of the wedding. Sulu will tie the knot with his wife of seven years Linda Samuriwo at an event that is expected to attract the who-is-who of showbiz and business communities.The bridal team will have a number of musicians including Sulu s cousin Tryson and former band member Franco Slomo Dhaka. Jah Prayzah will be the best man of the wedding.