. . . beauty queen speaks on life, modellingTafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Lifestyle Writer &#8212; Much to the pride and adoration of Victoria Falls residents, beautiful Ashley Morgen was crowned Miss Tourism Zimbabwe 2016, walking away with $20 000, a car among other prizes in a show that was broadcast live on ZBC/TV from a packed auditorium at Harare International Conference Centre last weekend.It was a good achievement for the resort town, which is known internationally for its ambience and majestic water falls. Who knew it is not about the smoke that thunders only but there are some rubies found there beautiful girls.Morgen beat other 14 contestants as Nonhlanhla Dube was voted First Princess, winning the Miss Agro-Tourism title and $10 000 while Shirley-Ann Lindsay was crowned Second Princess and Miss City Tourism to pocket $5 000.As luck kept smiling on her, 22-year-old Morgen was also crowned Miss Personality and pocketed $2 500.Again it was a bonus for her, being a resident from one of the most visited tourist destinations, when judges asked her the question, If you were to recommend two tourist destinations in Zimbabwe, which ones would they be and why? Obviously, charity begins at home. With confidence, she jumped to say, To any tourist visiting our country today, firstly I would highly recommend the majestic Victoria Falls, also known as Mosi-oa-Tunya, the smoke that thunders, the curtain that flows . . . and I would recommend the Hwange National Park, where you can find the big five animals . . . she said.Soon after being crowned on stage, she told journalists that one initiative in her reign would be donating sanitary pads to rural girls. She said the title came as a shocker and surprise to her considering that it was a stiff competition.The Saturday Herald Lifestyle caught up with the beauty queen who took time to share her life, academia, modelling and religious background among others, although she was busy writing exams.Little Ashley at eight yearsMorgen said she was not new to modelling as she has participated in different pageants while growing up. I first embraced modelling at the age of eight. I modelled here and there at my primary school and secondary level. I learnt at Baobab Primary School in Victoria Falls and moved to Marist Brothers Secondary School. In 2013 I joined Fingers Modelling Agency which was owned by Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda in Bulawayo because I wanted to take on bigger stages such as this one, hence I wanted time to prepare. She said she heard about Miss Tourism Zimbabwe auditions from a friend and decided to give it a try. I first heard about the auditions from a friend who tagged me on a Facebook post at Miss Tourism Zimbabwe. She said I was the girl they were looking for and I laughed. I pondered over it as I was still heartbroken from my last contest. I was second princess at Miss Professional 2015 in Bulawayo and Miss NUST 2015, said the lanky model.She said modelling was her first love and her parents are her pillar of strength. I owe this to my family who are very supportive although at first they were skeptical and feared that it would distract my studies. We had a chat and I promised and vowed to them that I would balance both passions. They understood me and supported me from that day. My sisters were present at the pageant and were the first relatives to congratulate me. One thing you need to know is that since primary school, my mother would attend my shows, she said.Asked what she will do with the prize money, Morgen said she had not decided yet because was busy with exams. I haven t decided yet but I am looking into investment as well as ploughing into the girl child projects. I will be spearheading this movement of promoting and developing the girl child come 2017. I was busy with exams. The model is a devout Christian who goes to ZAOGA church in Victoria Falls.Morgen, who is a social media fanatic and enjoys basketball and dancing, did not want to shed light on her relationship status, although she is now being regarded as the most beautiful girl in Zimbabwe. I am a devout Christian and owe my success to God. I love social media and dancing. My favourite sport is basketball. As for my relationship status I am not sharing yet. I will keep that to myself. She said bootcamp changed her perception on life skills and learnt a lot. Bootcamp was amazing. I met beautiful, smart ladies and we became family. Each day was different as we went through grooming and deportment, life skills lessons, career talks, appreciated organisations such as Sicas and Childline. We were taught on make-up, how to talk and walk on ramp with grace and confidence. Each lesson deposited something of value which assists a young woman in their day to day life even outside pageants. An undergraduate marketing student at National University of Science and Technology, Morgen said her studies will not be affected by her reign. I am in love with my marketing degree programme and it can blend well with my reign (modelling career) because it widens my options and I can use what I am learning at university. Morgen said has no particular role model as she appreciates a lot of successful woman. I have no particular role model I would look up to because I appreciate a lot of different traits in different women. This gives me a certain drive and motivation, from the women in my life to successful business women I dream to meet, she said.The Victoria Falls queen said modelling locally should be respected and taken seriously as it can sustain livelihoods. The best tool I can bring in modelling would be the brains . Pageants bring out brand ambassadors and you need to have brains. For Miss Tourism Zimbabwe it is all about empowerment of a girl child and using beauty to develop the society and I hope to bring the right energy and drive towards the vision. Born in a family of five, (two boys and three girls) Morgen is the third child.