Mr MakundeNyemudzai Kakore Herald Correspondent THE cash-strapped Chitungwiza Municipality is continuing to illegally employ the director of Urban Planning Services Mr Conrad Muchesa two years after his position was made redundant prejudicing council of over $50 000. Mr Muchesa s grade 15 post, was abolished on the organogram in 2014 with his duties transferred to the town planning department which would be superintended by the director of works.According to the minutes of the general purpose committee special meeting held on June 23, 2014: The Town Clerk Mr George Makunde engaged the director of Urban Planning Services to part ways with Council since the post no longer existed on the 2013 Organogram and report to Council. However, Mr Muchesa has continued to be an employee of the municipality despite attempts by most councillors to raise the alarm on why he is still an employee when other 240 employees who were removed from the organogram were shown the exit door.During a full council meeting held at the municipality recently, the finance committee led by their chairman Councillor Musekiwa Ruzvidzo resolved that, any expenses related to the post of director of urban planning services as per the 24th of May resolution in place be not paid henceforth. Vice chairman of the finance committee Councillor Charamba Mlambo said this was corruption being displayed as Mr Muchesa had been given preferential treatment. Our organogram was approved by the Ministry in 2014 to relieve Mr Muchesa of his duties. It is now raising eyebrows why the Town Clerk Mr George Makunde and the Mayor Councillor Phillip Mutoti are treating the two differently, said Clr Mlambo To achieve the 70:30 percent ratio on salaries and service delivery our municipality released more than 300 employees from their duties. I wonder why Mr Makunde is hesitating and is now in fear of the Labour Act when it comes to the two when council is losing hundreds of thousands of dollars. Sources at the municipality alleged that Mr Muchesa had managed to stay as he could fraudulently parcel out land to anyone who wanted to object on his continued stay and was also in good books with the Town clerk.Councillors accused him of stalling on giving offer letters, which was prejudicing council of potential revenue. Chitungwiza Mayor Clr Mutoti raised concern over the issue and asked the acting Town Clerk Dr Tonderai Kasu on why he had not been briefed on why the post of director urban planning was still occupied. You are snooping information from me as the Mayor. Why did the Town Clerk (Mr Makunde) not copy the letter from our legal advisor s report on Muchesa s departure? he questioned. Council resolutions should be implemented as such and l am suspending the finance committee resolution for two weeks and calling for a special meeting with committees on finance, general purposes, the Town Clerk, and myself. 