Tendai NdoroRED-hot Zimbabwe international and Orlando Pirates striker Tendai Ndoro insists he is not feeling any added pressure despite carrying the bulk of scoring responsibilities for the South African Premiership giants. The Buccaneers were held to a 2-2 draw against Highlands Park in their Absa Premiership clash at Orlando stadium on Saturday night, with Ndoro grabbing a brace to take his season s tally to 12 in all competitions.The next best scorers in the Pirates squad are a host of players on just one goal, yet Ndoro who is also set to make it among the Warriors 23-man side for the African Cup of Nations in Gabon next month, insists he s not perturbed by the unequal spread of scorers. I don t feel any pressure, he told SuperSport TV.Ndoro also said he was not setting any targets for himself fearing that it could add unwarranted pressure of missing out on them. The draw against Park leaves Pirates joint-fourth following a third win-less encounter, yet Ndoro is unworried. We are scoring, but conceding . . . but it s football. In the match against compatriot Tapuwa Kapini s Highlands Park, Ndoro wasted no time in giving Bucs the lead before even a minute was played on Saturday, heading in Luvuyo Memela s left-wing cross to give the former Warriors goalkeeper no chance.However, Highlands Park were awarded a penalty just before half-time when Justice Chabalala was adjudged by referee Lwandile Mfiki to have pulled back Edwin Sitayitayi in the area.Spot-kick specialist Thanduyise Khuboni stepped up and sent Brighton Mhlongo the wrong way to draw the scores level. Pirates were then awarded a spot-kick of their own when Ndoro s clever flick on the edge of the area resulted in Eddie Ngalo blocking the ball with his arm, and the striker converted low into the bottom-left corner to put Bucs back into the lead.Their fellow Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs continued to sing the blues when they fell 3-1 to Chippa United in Port Elizabeth. Chippa United actually came from a goal down to overcome Chiefs who are home to the Zimbabwean trio of Willard Katsande, Michelle Katsvairo and Edmore Chirambadare. The defeat on Saturday evening heaps more pressure on beleaguered Chiefs Steve Komphela as his club continued their horror slump. There were no such problems for Khama Billiat and champions Mamelodi Sundowns who romped to a 4-1 win over Free State Stars.Percy Tau netted a brace to inspire Sundowns to victory at Loftus Versfeld.The Brazilians controlled proceedings from the onset, with Tau and Billiat looking lively in the final third. Kick-off/Sports Reporter.