Bulawayo Bureau &#8212; With the festive season around the corner, Connect &#8211; a new joint which purports to service the needs of the mature and well- to-do revellers, is set to open its doors in Bulawayo next Friday. Located inside Cecil Hotel, the joint will seek to bring a new ambience and classy vibe in contrast to the raunchy pleasures offered in the now popular hotel s basement the famed Private Lounge. To firmly bring home the point that it will only cater for those that are looking for a different, but relaxed club experience, the joint will only open its doors on Fridays and Saturdays. We re targeting the kind of clientele that doesn t go out everyday, but instead choose certain days to go out and spend their money. The thought behind this is that the kind of reveller we re going for is one that s busy working during the week, but wants to have a good time during the weekend, said the joint s owner Biggie Chinoperekwei.He said although some people thought that clubbing was largely a youthful activity, the new joint would be placing emphasis on the older, mature crowd. This he said would be reflected in the music that will dominate the DJ s playlists. We want to make sure that the older crowd feels welcome so the music played by the DJs will be geared towards their tastes. What we want to offer is an international experience and if one can afford it, then we ll open our doors for them, he said.Chinoperekwei said although the joint might seem too elite and expensive for some, the experience and environment it would offer would be worth every penny spent. Right now, we re fixing the stage, but everything will be in order by the time the club opens. From the lighting and d cor to top class DJs, no one will be left disappointed. Our main thrust is to make sure that everyone gets value for their money, he said.According to Chinoperekwei, although the joint is looking to woo mature revellers, it does not mean that there would be regular live music, although he hastened to add that some of the country s hottest artistes would be invited periodically to showcase their talents. The DJs will do the bulk of the work, but we ll bring in some of the country s best live performers to showcase their skills from time to time. Chinoperekwei concluded by saying the joint will offer an environment that is currently unavailable at any joint in Bulawayo, which he and his team are determined will live up to all their big talk and promise. Those seeking to enter the new joint will have to pay a fee at the door which is yet to be determined.