THE National Darts Association of Zimbabwe (Ndaz) has hailed the move by the schools to embrace the sport in their curriculum. The National Association of Secondary School Heads (Nash) introduced darts two years ago in its sporting curriculum. In his end of year message to teams, Ndaz president Meynard Moyo said the association will continue consolidating on the trust and will also be focusing on improving the game next season. We embarked on our mission to make the game popular through development and publicity and you will agree with me that we have done our best. This has seen all the 10 provinces taking part in the provincial tournaments and schools taking up the game. Thanks to every one of us and Nash for the efforts, said Moyo in the message.He said the national executive in their assessment noted that there were positive results being realised in their activities but however, said more could be achieved. The executive noted that there is need for a buy in from all stakeholders and behavioural change from most of us. We believe if we are to change the face of the game, there is need to move away from the attitudes and practices that let us down. It is pleasing to note that we have seen an increase in the number of people joining the game and new suggestions on how to improve the game. This shows that we are truly living our values of trying to spread and develop the game at all levels. There is need for all of us to embrace the concept of spreading and developing the game, said Moyo.The Ndaz president said the introduction of many tournaments throughout the country at all levels including Nash and social games had seen a positive move in the game but urged the organisers and players to follow the rules and regulations of the game given that it s the same people playing in both the main and social leagues.Ndaz, said Moyo, had also scored success in a quest to bring confidence to the public hence the acceptance of the game by the general populace and as such it was up to everyone involved in the game to maintain those standards and walk the talk. The perception that the game is for drunkards and people of immoral behaviours should be a thing of the past. The sport continues to receive praises from other stakeholders like the Sports and Recreation Commission, said Moyo CHRONICLE