Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter&#8212; NATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director for coaching, talent identification and development Lisimati Phakamile says they are eager to establish a long-term partnership with Germany, which will see the latter assisting in the development of the sport locally. Phakamile told The Herald that they are looking forward to a long-term partnership after the visit by IAAF lecturer, Torsten Tesch from Germany, who conducted workshops on talent identification and development, kids athletics and a high level jumps seminar in Harare.Tesch s visit was facilitated by the German Olympic Sports Federation. The National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe is trying to build a relationship with the German Olympic Committee that is the DOSB. We want to build a relationship where the German government assists Zimbabwe athletics to grow and develop. They assist in the form of sending in specialists, whatever specialist that can help, it can be marketing, coaching, development or whatever area. We want them to assist our association in that regard, said Phakamile.The kids athletics targeted primary and secondary teachers while the talent identification and development and the jumps seminar focused mainly on coaches.Phakamile said they brought in different participants from all over the country for the German expert to have an understanding of the different environment they were coming from since he will be taking back his findings which are expected to contribute in determining the future relationship between the two parties. They sent him actually for this short-term period to come and see, to work with us, to share with us and so on. He will take his findings and everything back to the Germany Olympic Committee and they will deliberate on our future. They will then respond. If they are to respond with another short-term its okay, if they are to respond with a longer term deal that will be actually more ideal for athletics Zimbabwe. We hope with what we have done, we can win the Germany s sponsorship. We hope that we are going to get the long-term deal with them. We also hope that it will change the image that NAAZ has in the country and it will help it move forward and develop also, said Phakamile.Besides the workshops, Tesch also assisted NAAZ with their strategic plan for the next four years as they aim for the 2020 Olympics and he appeared impressed with their work.But he noted that there is room for improvement in some areas such as marketing of the national association s programmes. The team was very motivated, very focused. From the federation s activities that are there, the organisation, it s already very good and maybe there can be some improvement in letting people know. I think one point might be the marketing and not only in terms of thinking of sponsors but also in terms of promotion for their own sport. There is the TID (talent identification and development), knowing about the different stages and I think there can also be some improvements. That doesn t mean a person has to work on all stages. But for example if you work in the youth class it will help you in your daily work when you have an idea of what are the typical training methods in adult training and what are the typical training methods for the kids. So it helps you actually to do your search in development varieties as well, said Tesch.Tesch concluded his visit with the jumps seminar on Thursday and is expected to leave tomorrow.