Regan WasmuthCollin Matiza Sports Editor AFTER spending the whole of this season racing for South Africa s Tintswalo, Out of Africa Yamaha Racing Team, one of Zimbabwe s top junior motocross riders Regan Wasmuth has now landed another lucrative deal with a local team. Fresh from winning the 125cc Class title at the 2016 Zimbabwe Summer Series, which ended at Donnybrook in Harare on Sunday, Wasmuth has jumped ship and joined a local team the Grainger Racing KTM Team for the 2017 season.Wasmuth s father and manager, Warren, told The Herald yesterday that his 15-year-old son has left Tintswalo, Out of Africa Yamaha Racing Team of South Africa to ride for Zimbabwe s Grainger Racing KTM Team, which is supported by Alfie Cox s KTM from South Africa. Regan has moved across to the Grainger Racing KTM Team supported by Alfie Cox KTM. Grainger Racing Team is a Zimbabwe-based outfit headed by Gary Grainger. When the opportunity arose for Regan to switch brands, Grainger formalised a team and offered him a deal that will assist with his Zimbabwean, South African and possible international racing. Whilst Regan had a renewed offer from Tintswalo, he discussed his new venture with them and received their well wishes for this exciting new opportunity. Having had an up and down season in 2016, Regan showed that with two years left in the 125 High School Class, he is a good bet to win it, although it will be super competitive. Being a Zimbabwean based team, Grainger Racing KTM Team is more prepared to assist with the challenges that face local riders in preparing and racing national races in South Africa. Contractually, he has been offered a really good yearly deal, although there is five-year plan in place that will see all the contracted riders benefiting, Warren Wasmuth said.But he added that Regan will be based in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, for his training. In fact, he has spent the last four months there and the results have shown. He took on South Africa s best at the Zimbabwe Summer Series last week and won the series convincingly, Warren Wasmuth said. Grainger Racing KTM includes the exciting British rider, Damon Strydom, in the MX1 class. Having his roots in Zimbabwe and South Africa, Strydom will also compete in Southern Africa and Europe.His experience and ability will instil belief in the local younger riders to pursue their dreams of being international racers, Warren Wasmuth said. Local members of the same team include Tristan Grainger, who is 85cc Pro mini rider, Luke Southon (50cc), Daiyaan Manuel (65cc) and Bonz Southon (250 2stroke class). Regan is looking forward to racing with a home-based team that has received great support from the local racing community as well as the corporate sponsors. After all, Home is where the Heart is! , Warren Wasmuth concluded.Meanwhile, Regan Wasmuth did extremely well at the just-ended three-day Zimbabwe Summer Series at Donnybrook in Harare, where he won all his races in the 125cc Class. Wasmuth was just a joy to watch in the 125cc Class, which he won against the current South African champion Keagan Hickson-Mahoney and another top rider from the same country Cameron Durow.