AMMARATawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent &#8212; Musicians Suluman Chimbetu, Killer T, Ammara Brown and several disc jockeys are gearing up for the Lake December Festival to be held at Lake Chivero on Saturday. Chimbetu, who recently released his album titled Jamboree , said it would be an opportunity to take the new release to the people since he failed to officially launch it as expected last weekend.His publicist Joe Local Nyamungoma said they are happy with the support they are getting from their fans. Our fans have been very supportive and we will use our events in this last part of the year to say thank you . It is barely a week after we released Jamboree and the feedback we are getting is encouraging. We will take it to the people at Saturday s live show, said Nyamungoma.Killer T also released his new album Bvunza Tinzwe recently and some tracks are doing well. The musician has been criticised for failing to live up to expectations during live shows despite having many hits and he will have to prove his critics wrong at Lake Chivero.Killer T said they are doing serious preparations for the show in order to leave lasting impressions. We are ready for the gig. We are improving day by day on our stage work and we are ready to deliver the very best. It has to be a memorable show, he said.Ammara has recently been staging energetic performances and she is expected to put up a good act. Top DJs including Judgement Yard and D Culture as well as several dance groups will rotate with the musicians to entertain merrymakers.Lake December Mega festival marketing manager Terence Johane said the event is tailored for family entertainment. The braai festival was organised to accommodate everyone. It will begin on Saturday morning to allow children to enjoy in the company of their parents. Later in the day, it will be an event for adults and we are expecting them to party throughout the night. He said they would ensure tight security at the event. He said the stage has been set and people should expect a good outing that could usher them into festive mood.