Cde KasukuwereZvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter &#8212; Government will invoke the recently promulgated Local Government Act to bring sanity at Gweru City Council where mayor Hamutendi Kombayi and councillors are facing allegations of misconduct and abuse of funds. This was said by Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Saviour Kasukuwere in Parliament last week.He was responding to a question from Mkoba MP Mr Amos Chibaya (MDC-T), who wanted to know why the councillors were not being reinstated after Minister Kasukuwere withdrew his appeal recently in the Supreme Court challenging a High Court decision to reinstate the 11 councillors. We have withdrawn our case, said Minister Kasukuwere. We will now proceed in terms of the Local Government Act. All those facing different allegations will go before a Tribunal in terms of the law. Those who are clean will come back to resume their duties. Minister Kasukuwere defended the decision to allow a commission led by Mr Tsungai Mhangami to continue running the city, saying the remaining councillors did not constitute a quorum.Gweru Urban MP Mr Cecil Zvidzai (MDC-T) had alleged that the three councillors that came through a by-election should be allowed to run the affairs of the city. The quorum for Gweru is 11 and we have three councillors, said Minister Kasukuwere.He said he was happy with the commission running Gweru City Council and had received a report updating him on several developments happening in the city.Minister Kasukuwere said several vehicles had been bought to enhance service delivery.Meanwhile, legislators rapped the continued absence of Government ministers to field questions during question time, saying that impeded their oversight and representative role.Mutare Central MP Mr Innocent Gonese (MDC-T) said it was prudent that presiding officers briefed both Houses on those ministers who had sought leave of the House.Buhera South MP Cde Joseph Chinotimba (zanu-pf) said the continued failure by ministers to attend the question and answer sessions gave the MDC-T ammunition to attack Government. Vice President Mnangagwa should sit down with his ministers, he said. Honourable Gonese will get international attention, yet he would be telling the truth. VP Mnangagwa, who is also Leader of Government Business, said he always reminded his colleagues during Cabinet sittings on the importance of attending question time in Parliament.