Tedious Manyepo Sports Reporter&#8212;HARARE S Girls High School reigned supreme as they scooped three gold medals in the second edition of the $20 000 Bob Label tournament at Prince Edward School. The tournament attracted over 100 participants from the country s 10 provinces who battled it out in five disciplines &#8211; basketball, handball, rugby, netball and chess.But it was Girls High School who underlined their status as a sporting powerhouse in youth sport after they grabbed top prizes in basketball, handball and netball.Goromonzi bragged two gold and came second best in three disciplines.The Mashonaland East school struck gold in both men s and women s rugby.They, however, played second fiddle to fellow provincial heavyweights Arcturus in men s handball while they were outsmarted by Girls High School in both girls netball and handball.The men s basketball gold medal went to Churchill while Oriel Girls High grabbed the chess award.The tournament organiser, Tendai T-Burns Zhakata said he was impressed by the level of competition. I should say I was very much impressed by what I saw during the tournament. The spirit of sportsmanship shown by the youths during the games is very much commendable. We should try and maintain that in future tournaments. The tournament lived up to its billing. There shall be an awards night to be held for the tournament in the coming few weeks. That is when we are going to reward standout performers and winning teams, he said.Meanwhile, women s football Northern Region chairperson Wilbert Rambanapasi has called upon authorities to invest in proper sporting infrastructure in remote settlements if the country is to curb talent leakage.Speaking at a graduation and prize giving ceremony at Tumba primary school in Shurugwi last Friday where he was the guest of honor, Rambanapasi said there was a lot of untapped talent in the rural areas. Authorities should invest in sporting infrastructure if we are to curb the leakage of talent. At Tumba Primary, there is no proper infrastructure for adequate development of the future stars. The situation is not confined to Tumba alone but it is the same with most of the centres and schools across the country s rural areas, he said.