Joylady MdhluliArts Correspondent &#8212; GWERU-based upcoming gospel musician, Joylady Mdhluli has released her first album titled Tinenyasha , which has six tracks. Tinenyasha is basically a song praising the lord for the great work that He is doing in people s lives, including that of the musician.According to Joylady, Tinenyasha , which is her favourite song, is a special track that speaks to the amazing grace she has received from the Lord. I started singing when I was seven and most people liked my voice, so I was always being invited to join choirs. Looking back at the journey, I have travelled up to this point where I have successfully launched my first album it is truly amazing, it would never have been possible without God s grace. He never fails me because He is forever faithful and watches over his word for us to perform it, she said.Apart from Tinenyasha , the album also has Kunyengetera , which is a praise and worship song, Musandisiya and Mwari Muriko , which will resonate those who want to sing and dance as well as Mandiregerera and Ngipamandla .Joylady or Minister Joy, as she prefers to call herself, believes that gospel music is her calling. If there is one thing I enjoy the most is ministering the word through music. I have been ministering in churches, at conferences and weddings because serving the Lord brings huge rewards and that is why I came up with this great album. It is all about grace, she said.She added that she owes her success in music to the excellent tutoring of her mentor and pastor, Olinda Marowa Ziwenga and Mr Trymore Bande who have helped shape her music career.She also draws inspiration from South African gospel heavyweights Deborah Fraser and Sifiso Ncwane. I have leant a lot from all these people and that has helped shape me into the musician that I am today, she said.On her future plans Joylady says she is working on her first video which should be out early next year. I am also planning to do live shows in Zimbabwe together with seasoned gospel artists as well as collaborations, she said.She also plans to venture into the region and internationally, record more albums and videos.A beauty therapist by profession, Joylady is also undertaking further studies in cosmetology.