David MandigoraPaul Mundandi: Sports ReporterFORMER Dynamos gaffer David Yogi Mandigora s contract will not be renewed by Triangle and the veteran gaffer is now job hunting. I can confirm that Triangle United Football club will not be renewing my contract next season. I will be finishing working on the 31st of December and I hope I will find a club to coach I would like to thank the Triangle executive and fans for the support they gave me. I am very grateful for the executive, they took care of me the season I was in the Lowveld I did not achieve what I wanted to achieve with the club and at one time I wanted to resign on my own but I chose to keep hanging on. I wish the club, the fans and the executive all the best. In football you meet to part and part to meet, said Mandigora.Mandigora took over the hot seat left by Kelvin Kaindu at Triangle and managed a number a number eleven position. Since joining the league, the best year for Triangle was in 20i4 when they beat Dynamos 4-3 in a penalty shootout to lift the NetOne One Wallet Cup under the guidance of ZuzeThe following year in 2015 season, they managed a top four finish under Kaindu.Mandigora had signed a one-year contract with the Sugar-Sugar Boys and was assisted by Biggie Zuze, with Tembo Chuma taking charge of the goalkeepers.There was a discord in the technical bench which could have seen Mandigora opting out. Kaindu also did not last as he felt some people were interfering with his work and besides being one of the best coaches, he opted to leave Sources close to The Herald revealed that one of the members of the technical team is related to one of the directors at Triangle and this is causing the fall of the team. We know that one of the members is related to the big bosses and a numbers of fans are now suffering because of the relationship of the two. We are surprised that such a big name is still encouraging nepotism in the company, said a disgruntled fan.Chuma, Kaindu s favourite, might be leaving the team for How Mine whilst Zuze position could not be ascertained as he was in South Africa with the Young Warriors and was only expected to return home last night following the Under-20 team s early exit from the COSAFA tournament.Mandigora becomes the second coach to lose his job at the end of the 2016 Castle Lager Premiership season. Another former Dynamos midfielder and coach Moses Bambo Chunga was the first of the 16 top-flight coaches to be sacked, with Harare City deciding against handing him a contract extension.There had earlier been indications that Chunga would be given a fresh two-year deal but it seems the Sunshine Boys failure to secure a top eight finish put paid to those hopes with the club deciding to look at a new hand to guide Harare City in 2017.