For a start, expensive presents on show under the tree are a welcoming invitation for burglars.Whether you have just moved into a new home, going away for Christmas, or staying at home for the festive season, it s essential to ensure your security measures are up-to-date to reduce risk of your property being targeted by burglars. Make your house less attractive to thieves Consider using external dusk till dawn lights and other visual deterrents including alarms and CCTV cameras (as burglars don t want to be seen), says Steffan George, director of business development at the Master Locksmiths Association. If you are staying away from your property, make it look like the house is still occupied with lights on timers and a fake TV upstairs.These can act as good deterrents. I would highly recommend adding professionally installed high quality locks to doors and windows and consider securing your outbuildings with tools safely stored away. Make sure your alarm is in working order An intruder alarm system, especially one that is monitored through to the police, is also a great deterrent to any burglar, says Lucie Banham, director of the Banham Group. It s important to make sure it s working and you have reset all the alarm codes. Often people don t get round to setting up and using their alarm systems when they move home .Without an NSI-installed system that is regularly serviced and in full working order, your insurance may be void, Banham warns. Remember, if you don t use your alarm or locks properly, you will not be covered by your insurance company.Protect your valuables Never leave valuables in sight as it acts an as advertisement to potential thieves. Also consider getting a safe professionally specified and installed, says George. Make sure all doors and windows are locked, even when the house is occupied. Keep your keys in a safe place and ensure they are never left in the locks or kept within reach of the letter box. Banham adds: Documents such as passports are invaluable and are being targeted too if not locked away. Keep your presents safe Expensive presents on show under the tree are a welcoming invitation for burglars so try keeping presents out of sight, explains the Met police. And don t leave any gift packaging outside your home advertising any new and expensive items inside. Be mindful on social media I would avoid publicising your travel plans on social media, in particular if you are going away for Christmas, says George, as most people have their social networks public on sites including Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.Update security One of the first things a new homeowner should do when they move into their new property is to re-look at and update the security that has been installed, explains Banham. People forget that photos, floor plans and now even virtual tours of their property have been listed online with estate agents as part of the sales process.Whilst this is useful for purchasers, it also can reveal the security arrangements of the property, giving a guide to burglars by showing potential locations and weaknesses in the existing security. Keep an eye on your keysBanham says that for over 70 percent of burglaries the point of entry is through a door. Therefore, if you can t account for all your keys or don t know how many keys have been cut, a first simple and cost effective must-do solution is to change your locks, she recommends. Often, you can just change the barrels of your locks and using a key registration system to track how many keys have been cut will ensure your keys and your property are kept safe. houseuk.com