Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter&#8212;THE 2016 edition of the Champion of Champions karate tournament will be different this time around after they got sponsorship worth $10 000 from AfricaBet yesterday. The event is scheduled for December 17 in Harare and is expected to attract a strong filed.The Champion of Champions is usually the last event on the Zimbabwe Karate Union national calendar and includes several age groups and categories.AfricaBet, for the first time, have partnered a local sports union and marketing manager, Tarisai Chiripanyanga, believes this is only the beginning of big things to come. We are happy as AfricaBet and being the biggest sports shop in the country we are happy to partner with the Zimbabwe Karate Union. The tournament will be different this year as we have pledged to help them with the money to stage a successful tournament. We are always associated with success so we are going to make sure that the tournament is a great success. This is not going to be one-off thing but we will continue to support the ZKU for it is also part of our social responsibility, said Chiripanyanga.The money will be channeled towards several logistics for the tournament and AfricaBet will provide several medals for the event. We have decided to provide 60 gold, 60 silver and 120 bronze medals, tatami mates, certificates, the venue as well as allowances for match officials and commissioners and refreshments for participants. ZKU president Joe Rugwete said what they received from AfricaBet will go a long way in promoting the sport. We as the ZKU we are delighted, humbled and privileged to have this opportunity to embark on a landmark partnership with AfricaBet as it is difficult to secure sponsorship theses days, he said. The investment has come at the right time as athletes are seeking tangible rewards. We have always been guided by the four-year strategic plan we adopted in Kwekwe in 2014 and this will help us fulfill some of the objectives that were set in the plan. 