Gabriel MvumvureEllina Mhlanga Sports Reporter&#8212;NATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe have pledged their support for sprinter Gabriel Mvumvure, who is seeking funds to undergo a kidney transplant. The track star was diagnosed with kidney failure recently and is appealing for $21 000 to undergo a surgery in the United States.NAAZ president Tendai Tagara said they have been in touch with the Zimbabwean athlete and are trying to link-up with his former university, Louisiana State University, who are reported to have partnered the athlete in raising the needed funds.According to the university s website, the costs from the time of diagnosis, as well as a kidney transplant and recovery could total as much as $250 000. When we heard it for the first time, we wrote to Mvumvure to express our concern over the situation and asking him about his plans, assistance and progress. We then heard that the university took over to create an account to raise the funds. The treasurer (of NAAZ) is in the process of trying to link with them to see how we can help towards that. We have asked our Athletes Commission to say this is the plight of your colleague for them to make their contribution. But the association must assist them because they are the ones in communication with the university. We have done this before when our athletes faced challenges like this. So it s something we always do when our athletes or officials face problems and we are in the process of doing that, said Tagara.Tagara, however, said they have to meet as an association and look at how much they can contribute. At the moment I cannot reveal the amount. We have to meet and decide. We were also thinking of having fundraising events. It s also a situation that must bring us together in terms of athletes welfare and strengthening our Athletes Commission. Those are unforeseen situations and we need to prepare for them. Gabriel is very patriotic, obedient and loyal. Whenever he was called for national duty, he complied. He is very hard working. Remember he is a former African champion and it s a sad situation for him and us. When I met him in Brazil, we talked about a lot of things, we talked about the future the World Championships in London next year, said Tagara.Zimbabwe Olympic Committee chief executive Anna Mguni said they are also looking into Mvumvure s plight. What I can say is that everybody is looking into it, how they can assist if they can assist. Both the organisation and at individual level, we are looking at it and see how we can assist. It s a sad development that he has this health situation. It is a sad development for him as an individual and as an athlete. We hope something positive can come out, said Mguni.Mvumvure, a former African junior champion, represented Zimbabwe at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in August.