Lorraine ZhouRuth Butaumocho Gender Profile After spending the better part of her life in the small town of Chiredzi, Lorraine Zhou came to Harare. Somehow she knew that her life would never be the same again. With abundant opportunities and expanded territory, Lorraine did not wait for a magical carpet to fulfil her dreams, but she worked hard.Her good work ethics have not only become a benchmark of success at Allen Wack and Shepherd Global Freighting, where she works but this resulted in her being recognised as the Young International Freight Forwarder of the Year, YIFFY award for Africa and the Middle East. It is amazing how I have managed to scale such heights in a short period of time from when I told myself I could do so much more, enthused Lorraine in an interview recently.Now in its 18th year, YIFFY identifies, recognises and encourages young talented individuals who are passionate about freight forwarding by honouring them.Lorraine Zhou graduates with a degree in Fiscal Studies and receives the Young International Freight Forwarder of the Year, YIFFY award for Africa and the Middle East in Dublin, IrelandFor Lorraine, winning the regional prize was the best thing that has ever happened to her, considering her humble background. I still can t believe that I clinched the regional title in the whole of Africa and the Middle East. It is something that I never thought I would achieve when I submitted my dissertation for consideration. Despite being the youngest among the people who entered the award and being fairly new in the industry, she made history by becoming the first ever Zimbabwean to participate in the YIFFY award. When I saw the call for the awards, I knew I had to submit a dissertation that speaks to the problems that Zimbabwe, being a landlocked country, faces in transportation of cargo, and how that was affecting our economic development and external trade, said Lorraine.In her dissertation, Lorraine sought to address various complexities faced in trading in a landlocked country and the use of multi-modal transport for effective freight forwarding. I highlighted complexities encountered in the voyage of commodities like cotton lint and the remedies thereto, to ensure timely and safe delivery of the cargo, she recalls.Commencing on the work meant a series of consultations with her supervisor, workmates and clients who gave an insight into the trends, challenges and possible solutions that Zimbabwe could look at in the long run. I just had to go an extra mile to ensure that I gathered as much information as possible. With tight deadlines pushing me to the limits, it was a lot of hard work. While working on the dissertation, it dawned on Lorraine that breaking new ground was not going to be easy since there was no local history of participation to base her research on.However, she had to brave the weather and face the challenge motivated by the support the national secretariat gave her to enter the competition.Little did she realise that her determination, perseverance and hard work would indeed pay off. They did.The dissertation tilted the scale in her favour, landing her one of the most coveted awards in freight forwarding. When the news came that I was the regional winner for Africa and the Middle East, I was shocked beyond comprehension. I just could not believe that my work had been recognised and chosen among several other contestants who might have worked even harder than me, but still did not make it, she recalled.Lorraine had to travel all the way to Dublin, Ireland where she received her gong during the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations World Congress. I kept telling myself that we are not defined by our backgrounds, but how we intend to make a difference no matter how limiting our circumstances might be, she said.Lorraine has not let her background determine or limit her aspirations.Born in the sugarcane town of Chiredzi in 1991, she grew up dedicated, hard working and determined to achieve greatness.She failed her O-Level examinations and had to rewrite them, because she was convinced that she could still do better. I learnt that people who fail or pass have the same chances in life. What is important is to figure out how you intend to move from your current circumstances, she said.It was the same passion that spurred her to pass her second O-Level sitting, and subsequently excel in her A-Level examinations.Lorraine then embarked on a degree in Fiscal Studies. Her journey in the freight forwarding industry began in 2014 as an intern clearing clerk at Allen Wack and Shepherd Global Freight in Harare, where she is now fully employed.Looking into the future, Lorraine now wants to enrol for the International Diploma in Freight Forwarding Practice offered by FIATA. I am also looking forward to establishing a structure in Zimbabwe of a young freight forwarders body under the auspices of the Shipping Forwarders and Agents Association of Zimbabwe, she said.The future certainly looks bright for the young freight forwarder, who believes that one has to give their best in everything they undertake.