President Mugabe welcomes South African Deputy President Cde Cyril Ramaphosa at the zanu-pf 16th Annual National People&#8217;s Conference in Masvingo yesterday. (Picture by Believe Nyakudjara)Levi Mukarati in Masvingo&#8212;Zanu-PF views the current state of the economy seriously and has deliberately made the issue a focus of deliberations at its annual indaba currently underway in Masvingo. President Mugabe told delegates to the 16th Annual National People s Conference here to focus their deliberations on measures to improve all sectors of the economy.He said this in his keynote address to the gathering yesterday. Our conference is taking place at a time when the heavens have happily opened, blessing us with heavy showers that point to a promising agricultural season, said President Mugabe. The rains have thus blessed us with cool weather, one that is ideal and conducive for us to engage in fruitful deliberations on the theme of our conference which is Moving with Zim-Asset in Peace and Unity . The conference theme, which is both timely and relevant, makes matters economical the focal point of most of our deliberations which are going to take place in these three days which we are going to be here for the conference, he said. As delegates, we are all expected to actively debate and proffer solutions for our country s economic recovery in agriculture, in mining, manufacturing and commerce, in tourism, infrastructure and in several other areas, said the President. At this conference we anticipate robust, frank, informed and informing ministers and committees presentations and delegates subsequent discussions. All delegates are expected to actively participate in the conference in one form or another. The President said apart from discussing the economy, the conference should look at the state of the party in 2016.He said the party had managed to overcome various challenges during the course of the year. Even El Nino, that baneful factor in the elements, we have also defeated, he said. We have been able to feed our nation and sustain lives against a searing drought. The people are grateful to the party, for through its Government, they have been fended for. As we break into groups and committees, let us discuss issues candidly. Let us generate solutions to the problems that confront us, the President urged delegates from all the country s provi- nces. We are our own liberators. We have resources galore. But, above all, we need discipline and integrity. This culture of corruption, of kickbacks, must stop. We must facilitate projects that grow our economy. We have our Zim-Asset, which lays all parameters for our economic efforts. We gather here to confer towards success, he said.President Mugabe said there was need for Zanu-PF members to protect the party s policies and programmes against forces that may seek to derail them.He said despite a bad agricultural season during 2015-2016, Government had managed to feed its people. We were visited by a drought which caused our harvest to be poor and therefore created a situation of hunger amongst our people. But we have been able to feed our people and we continue the task of ensuring that no one dies from hunger, said President Mugabe. Tinotenda vanotiitira basa irori rekutsvaga chikafu, vana (Minister of Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Joseph) Made. Kuzoita kuti (chikafu) chipinde munyika zvakanaka paine ruzivo rwekuti chirikuenda kupi nekupi. Vana Mai Prisca Mupfumira (Minister of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare), tinovatenda zvikuru ngavarambe vakadaro. The Zanu-PF conference ends today.