From George Maponga in Masvingo ZANU-PF is impressed with the ongoing preparations for its 16th National Annual People s Conference set for Masvingo this month. The party s Secretary for Administration, Dr Ignatius Chombo, toured the conference venue last Friday accompanied by other party officials Speaking after touring the Masvingo Showgrounds, venue for the conference, Dr Chombo lauded the Masvingo political leadership for what he termed perfect preparations .The conference runs from December 13-17 under the theme Moving with Zim-Asset in Peace and Unity .Over 5 000 delegates are expected to attend the conference.Dr Chombo said it was incumbent upon the national Zanu-PF leadership to craft content that befitted sterling preparations made for the indaba. I want to say to the Masvingo political leadership keep it up. You are doing a very good job and there is very good progress on the ground which sets the stage for a very good conference, he said. Now we are turning our attention to the content of the conference so that we make fruitful discussions during our conference. We want to give our people the message of hope which they will carry to the majority of Zimbabweans after the conference. The good work that is being done here should also be matched by the content of discussions that we are going to have, he added.Dr Chombo said he was impressed by the preparations. I am very impressed with everything that I have seen. The roads are in good shape. The toilets are coming up together with the plumbing. Tents are also coming up together with the dining facilities and I have no doubt that we will end up with a very good conference. Masvingo Provincial Affairs Minister Senator Shuvai Mahofa paid tribute to Dr Chombo and his team.She thanked the Zanu-PF Masvingo political leadership for working in unity. I am very impressed with the level of enthusiasm which everyone one of us here is showing towards making sure that we have the mother of all conferences . The Zanu-PF national leadership is also keeping us on our toes and I am happy with the level of unity among those organising the conference, said Cde Mahofa.Vice Presidents Emmerson Mnangagwa and Phelekezela Mphoko are also expected to visit Masvingo to make sure everything is in place for the conference.