Moses ChungaPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter&#8212;MOSES CHUNGA says he will not lose sleep simply because Premiership side Harare City decided not to extend his contract beyond the end of this month and is adamant he was a success at the club in the seven months he was at the club. The nomadic coach said there will always be other opportunities for a coach like him and does not even rule out a sensational return to his old club Dynamos.Reports had suggested Harare City tabled an extended two-year contract for Chunga, which was supposed to be signed this month, but the club had a change of heart and decided against an extension while giving assistant coach, Mkhuphali Masuku, the big job.Chunga has clashed with some of the club s fans who didn t like his revolution to use a number of emerging players as he prepared for the future while dumping a number of regulars either at the bench or out of the team.The former Zimbabwe captain said he respected Harare City s decision. I would like to say thank you to Mr Masepe (Alois, the club chairman) for the time we worked together this season. We once worked together at Dynamos and I hope we will work together again in future, said Chunga. I have no qualms with Harare City. They made their decision not to renew my contract but it is not the end of my life. There is life after Harare City and handirase mbereko nekufirwa. I am going to wait for the next bus that comes my way and I will definitely board it. I could not force them to extend my contract. I can t force them to love me. They had their plans after seeing that they could not go into the 2017 season with me. When you have a contract and it comes to an end, it s either it s going to be extended or the relationship is going to end and the people at Harare City decided the best way forward was for us to part ways by not renewing the contract, and I respect them for that because they are the ones who make the call. I had no project but it was Harare City s project and the youngsters whom I believed in are not my players but they belong to City. It s very difficult to please everyone in life but I will keep thanking Masepe for the confidence he had in me. Harare City have now officially advised Chunga they will not renew his contract. Please be advised that the coaching contract which you entered into with Harare City Football Club will be expiring on the 31st December 2016, club secretary-general Matthew Marara wrote. You are hereby notified that Harare City Football Club will not be renewing your contract after its expiry on 31 December 2016. You shall, therefore, cease to be the football club head coach upon the expiry of your coaching contract. Please ensure that you surrender all the club s property that is within your possession to the club s secretary -general or administrator seven days before the expiry of the contract. Chunga was appointed the Harare City coach after Taurai Mangwiro was fired in May.He had collected just nine points from a possible 27.The team eventually just managed 39 points from the 30 games they played with 11 wins, six draws and 13 losses.Chunga said he would not say no to Dynamos should they come calling. If Dynamos approach me, using the right channels, I will accept to coach them. If they don t have a coach we can talk but if they have a coach it s not possible, said Chunga.