A SURVIVOR S STORY . . . Wonder Mucherera (right) narrates his tale to Sport and Recreation Minister Makhosini Hlongwane after he survived the accident that claimed some of his colleagues on Friday nightSports Reporter MINISTER of Sport and Recreation Makhosini Hlongwane yesterday visited the Ministry officials who were injured in a road accident that claimed three of his subordinates. The officials were on their way to Hwange for the Youth Education through Sport (YES) games when the bus they were travelling on failed to negotiate a curve and overturned near Turnpike last Thursday.Regis Chabata, Lilian Mupandasakwa and the driver Innocent Fusire died on the spot while 10 others were injured and rushed to hospital.Eight of the injured have since been discharged and are recovering at their homes.Hlongwane yesterday visited the injured and delegated senior officials to Mupandasekwa s burial in Chivhu as well as Chabata s in Murehwa. The Ministry of Sport and Recreation is profoundly saddened by the tragic loss of life and injury following the unfortunate incident. It was important to support our staff. It is also important for us to get a feel of what happened. We will be visiting to see and talk to them and hear from them and give them our support. It s important to support our staff because they are gallant fighters in the Ministry of Sport. People should plan ahead and travel during the day and not at night. They must also not move with speed to get to their destinations. I am going to instruct my permanent secretary together with his team to deal with these matters. As a ministry I am going to insist that people travel during the day especially those who will be using road transport, said Hlongwane.Mukumbomana reflected on the accident. I was thrown outside the window and half of my body got trapped but people managed to assist me. I had earlier on told Fusire to reduce speed but he had told me that he wanted to have a feel of the bus A few minutes after advising to drop speed the bus made a 360 degrees turn and landed on its roof. I hit the tarmac and I only have slight pain on my left shoulder, said Mukumbomana.Another survivor Mucherera said he was lucky to be alive after he was thrown out of the window.He suffered soft tissue injuries on both arms and has no fractures. I was thrown on the tarmac and I saw the bus overturning. I am now able to walk but I am saddened by losing my workmates, said Matavire.All the survivors and family members were touched by the Minister s visit and show of care and concern for the victims.Hlongwane also dispatched two buses to Murehwa and Chivhu headed by directors who attended the burials on his behalf.