Business Reporter&#8212;The Government is set to extend the Rapid Results Approach (RRA) programme to the mining and agricultural sector in the new year. RRA is a methodology that breaks down long-term goals or projects into smaller components that can be implemented over a short period of time, usually within a period of 100 days. Ultimately, implementing the programme will enhance Zimbabwe s competitiveness, create jobs, generate revenue and support growth.Agriculture and mining are the major contributors to country s gross domestic product. According to the 2017 National Budget, overall GDP growth is projected at 1,7 percent on the back of anticipated moderate improvements in international commodity prices, planned mining investments and benefits of ease of doing business reforms.Agriculture is projected to grow by 12 percent in 2017 driven by higher output from major crops such as maize, cotton, tobacco and milk production.Mining is expected to experience a modest growth of 0,9 percent , according to the National Budget.Deputy Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Ray Ndhlukula said the RRA across sectors would also assist Government accelerate implementation of Zim Asset s priorities and ensure they are achieved within the second half cycle of the economic blue print.Dr Ndhlukula said Government had now adopted a sectoral approach to ease of doing business to jump-start major change efforts in the implementation of various policies, programmes and projects that promote the business environment.The sectoral approach to ease of doing business has been used in tourism and enablers sector, transport sector, City of Harare and City of Bulawayo. The other sectors to be brought on board are agriculture, mining sector and the remaining local authorities, said Dr Ndhlukula at an ease of doing export business workshop. Government has to prioritise projects for implementation, those projects that are identified for implementation have to be expedited considering the huge expectations for service delivery from citizenry. Therefore the RRA becomes appropriate and more relevant, he said.The RRA was adopted in 2014 and a number of initiatives have so far been implemented. It used to take 90 days to fulfil nine procedures to start a new business, but the number of days has been reduced to 14. To get a shop licence, businesses were required to advertise twice in the print media, a process that would cumulatively take 55 days. However, with the implementation of ease of doing business reforms, these requirements were dropped, said Dr Ndhlukula.The RRA has also reduced application period for construction permits from 448 days to 120 days while property registration now takes 11 days from 36. Time taken to pay taxes was reduced from 242 hours to 160 hours.All the initiatives are expected to ultimately boost the country s global rankings and attract foreign direct investment.The World Bank ranks Zimbabwe at number 161 out of 190 economies on the ease of doing business.