LONDON. &#8211; German tennis legend Boris Becker has admitted the last six months coaching Novak Djokovic were challenging and says the Serbian should have practiced more. Djokovic lost his momentum in the second half of last season and was toppled as the world number one by Andy Murray because his work-rate dropped, the Serbian s former coach Becker also said on Wednesday.Becker and Djokovic parted ways on Tuesday after a trophy-laden three years together that yielded six Grand Slam titles. The news came just over a month after Djokovic lost his world No. 1 ranking to Murray.Speaking exclusively to Sky News about the split, Becker said: We came to an agreement we would end the relationship as of today. It was an unbelievable ride. We had three years of lots of success. Of course there are one or two losses that I would like to erase and not be reminded of but overall if somebody would have told us three years ago we are going to win six Grand Slams together, regain the No. 1 spot in the world and just be the most dominant player, I would have signed up for that. After winning the Australian Open for a sixth time and then claiming a first French Open this year Djokovic was on course to complete a calendar year Grand Slam &#8211; a feat last managed in 1969 by Australian great Rod Laver.But the 29-year-old bowed out in the third round of Wimbledon to Sam Querrey, lost in the first round of the Rio Olympics to Juan Martin Del Potro and then went down to Stan Wawrinka in the US Open final.Djokovic s dip in form allowed Murray to overhaul an 8,000-point ranking lead and Becker admits the split had been coming. It was mutual, Becker confirmed. A decision like this does not happen overnight. It is a progress. I think the last six months have been challenging on many levels. Our hands were tied a little bit because we couldn t do the work we wanted to do. He didn t spend as much time on the practice court in the last six months as he should have and he knows that. Success like this doesn t happen by pushing a button. Success like this doesn t just happen by showing up at a tournament. You have to work your bottom off because the opposition does the same. After his surprising loss to Querrey at Wimbledon, Djokovic appeared uncharacteristically drained in his post-match press conference and Becker admits the 29-year-old was struggling to juggle the demands of his personal and professional lives. I don t know if he had any personal problems based on what I know, Becker said. He is happily married. He has got a beautiful son. But the profession of a tennis player is probably the most selfish one in sports because it has to be about you and he is the first to say he is a family man so of course his wife and the rest of his family had to take back seats. That can t be forever and I think that is what he meant. I don t think there were problems. I have met his wife &#8211; she is lovely and very, very supportive of her husband. But they don t spend enough time together. I had it too, 20 years ago. It is just the nature of the beast, being a tennis player. &#8211; Sky Sports.