Leonard TsipaGrace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter PREMIERSHIP Golden Boot winner Leonard Tsipa says he has no hard feeling after he was overlooked in the enlarged Warriors squad for next month s African Cup of Nations soccer finals in Gabon. The CAPS United hitman was hoping that he could at least be rewarded with a national team call up after a fine season where he finished as the top goalscorer with 11 goals and was also the Soccer Star of the Year first runner-up.But there was no place for the 34-year-old striker in the Warriors 31-member provisional squad for AFCON that was named by coach Callisto Pasuwa on Sunday night. We cannot all play for the national team. The selected ones, at any given time, should deliver for the national team and the country. Yes, I was looking forward to the call up because it is every player s wish to play for his country. I had a good season and was one of the top players in the league. But get me correct, I am not jealous or hurting that I was not selected. I wish the team good luck and want them to perform well at the tournament, said Tsipa.However, there was subtle recognition for the veteran forward after he was included in the Warriors B squad which is now expected to travel to Abidjan this week to feature in an international friendly match against Cote d Ivoire on Boxing Day.The squad consisting of local based players will now fill in for the regular full strength Warriors squad in Abidjan.All the foreign-based players are still committed at their respective clubs and they are only expected to arrive home after the team has already left for Abidjan.While Warriors coach Pasuwa will not be able to assess most of the players he will use at the AFCON finals in this match against the Elephants, he might use the chance to take a closer look at some national team s fringe players he has not named in the 31-member provisional squad.Tsipa feels he can still gate-crash into the final squad should he impress in Cote d Ivoire. I am happy that I have been called for this friendly match even though I am yet to be told of the call up by ZIFA. But if it is true, I would be happy. It always feels good to represent your country at any level of competition. Even though it is just a friendly match, I will do my best. I am ready to play my part and you never know what will happen afterwards, said Tsipa.The veteran forward, who was club-hunting in Tanzania for a week, is praying that CAPS United renews his contract after he was unimpressed by the offer in the East African country.His contract with the Green Machine expires at the end of this month.However, the December 26 match against Cote d Ivoire will still present a good chance to the Warriors mentor to assess his team ahead of the AFCON finals as some of his regular players will have real competition against the Elephants.Warriors first and second-choice goalkeepers Tatenda Mukuruva and Donovan Benard, defenders Hardlife Zvirekwi, Elisha Muroiwa and Lawrence Mhlanga, Marshal Mudehwe are some of the players that will make the trip.The coach has drawn the bulk of his squad from the players that went to the COSAFA Cup in Namibia in May and also took part in CHAN at the start of the year.There is only one foreign-based player in Pasuwa s squad after he included Sweden-based forward Tino Kadewere.ZIFA have secured more friendly matches for the national team and Pasuwa will have the luxury to field all his players in another friendly match against Cameroon on January 10 in Yaounde.Warriors squad for Cote d Ivoire match:Donovan Bernard, Tatenda Mukuruva, Hardlife Zvirekwi, Elisha Muroiwa, Lawrence Mhlanga, Teenage Hadebe, Tendai Ndlovu, Ronald Pfumbidzai, Liberty Chakoroma, Lewis Kutinyu, Ronald Chitiyo, Marshal Mudehwe, Talent Chawapiwa, Walter Musona, Malvin Gaki, Pritchard Mpelele, Tinotenda Kadewere, Leonard Tsipa.