Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter&#8212;ZAMBIA international defender Aaron Katebe is interested in joining champions CAPS United to boost their defensive capacity ahead of the 2017 CAF Champions League campaign. The Zanaco defender could also consider Ngezi Platinum, who are set to play in the CAF Confederation Cup next year.He had a stint at FC Platinum before moving to Morocco and then returning home to Zambia. I have been following the achievements by the two clubs, CAPS United and Ngezi Platinum, and the truth is I am very interested in joining them, said Katebe. I want to play for any professional or semi-professional club in Zimbabwe My wish is to go and play in Africa. I also hope that one day I might find myself playing for FC Platinum if they are still interested in me. He helped Zanaco lift the league title in Zambia. Zimbabwe league is more professional compared to Zambia one. My country is trying hard and it s blessed with talent, said KatebeHe played for Hwange before he was snapped by FC Platinum. He joined Zambian coach Tenant Chilumba at FC Platinum after the gaffer convinced him they provided a better deal for him than Dynamos.Chilumba also brought Petros Mhari and Winston Mhango to the Zvishavane side. Katebe left Zimbabwe and joined Maghreb Athletic Tetouan in Morocco but his contract was terminated after the club failed to pay him his dues.He went back home and played for Zanaco and won the league championship. The defender, however, just loves Zimbabwe. It is unfortunate that FC Platinum failed to win the league. I wanted it for the supporters and the executive because they supported me from the time I arrived and even when I left, they still supported me. At Zanaco, Katebe carries home $1 100 per month and gets $350 as a winning bonus.Meanwhile, Mhari has committed his future to FC Platinum when he renewed his contract for a further two years. I am currently in Zvishavane at the moment and we are finalising my deal. I am committed to my team and I am happy to have renewed my contract, said the goalkeeper.Mhari won the Goalkeeper of The Year award last week. He joined FC Platinum three years ago after having been turned into a good keeper by former Dynamos captain Angirayi Chapo.He played 34 games this season, 30 league matches and four Cup ties, and managed 18 clean sheets.