Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM coach Norman Mapeza has buried the disappointment of missing out on the league title this year and has pledged to fight harder for the honours next season. The platinum miners pushed the contest to the last day of the campaign with big wins over Highlanders and Tsholotsho in their last two games but they still lost to CAPS United.A 1-2 defeat at the hands of Harare City in Week 27 ruined their campaign. I think we did well. Of course, there was so much expectations towards the end of the season, said Mapeza. After we lost to Harare City, we surrendered the destiny of the title to CAPS United. But I kept believing because you never know with football. At the end of the day I can t complain. We did everything in our power but I do believe that if something is written, or maybe God has spoken, you can t change it. FC Platinum, however, still believe they can turn the tables and lift the championship next year. Next year is our year and we will be gunning for the championship. We will try to work very hard, I want to thank everyone and my appeal (to the FC Platinum family) is to remain united, said Mapeza. We just need to keep work hard, we need to keep on believing and then see what happens come the end of next season. I am someone who loves talking about the future because nobody knows what s in store. We just hope next season we will be in better health. I am giving myself a two-week break then I will plan for next season. You never know with the economic challenges we are facing as a nation but usually we prefer to camp. I will give the club bosses my programme for next season and then we will take it from there. There was a feeling within the club s leadership that the team lost it out when they drew at home with Ngezi Platinum and away to Border Strikers.Meanwhile, the FC Platinum management yesterday hailed their coach for a good season. The club s spokesperson, Chido Chizondo, said despite missing the championship they still achieved their target. We set our targets as a team and we achieved them. The league was within our reach but we lost out. However, there is always a next time. We are very happy with Mapeza after he achieved the targets. We were number three in 2015 and this year we came second. We also reached the final of the Chibuku Super Cup.