Samantha Chigogo Herald Correspondent&#8212;THE Grain Millers Association of Zimbabwe yesterday donated 30 tonnes of maize-meal towards the successful hosting of the zanu-pf 16th Annual National People s Conference in Masvingo. Receiving the maize-meal in Harare yesterday, Politburo member Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri,who is also Environment, Water and Climate Minister, said good governance policies always saw zanu-pf receiving tokens of appreciation from several organisations. Youth empowerment is greatly bearing fruits for the nation and we are glad that while others are criticising every policy that we put in place, the majority are actually yielding benefits and it is more pleasing to see them giving back to the nation, she said. As the old adage goes, you cannot bite the same hand that feeds you, these organisations are just appreciating the good economic field we have laid down for them and this is just a token of appreciation to their Government and its policies. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri said through Zim-Asset, the 10-Point Plan and Statutory Instrument 64 of 2016, Government had been pushing for the success of localised policies for the empowerment of indigenous companies. The policies we have pursued since independence have given power to black companies and organisations and our youth empowerment programmes are bearing fruit and benefiting the majority of fellow Zimbabweans, she said. President Mugabe and the party at large remain grateful over the move by some companies to donate in kind or cash towards the zanu-pf national conference as this shows how people value this gathering and its importance in reflecting matters of national interest. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri said the annual conference was an important event set to review Government policies as well as set parameters for better economic endeavours nationwide.GMAZ president Mr Tafadzwa Musarara said private millers would attend the conference under the Food Security and Nutrition Cluster of Zim-Asset to strengthen public- private partnerships with the Government in grain production. Our aim is to see the country grow into a self-sufficient economy and we will ensure that grain access is available while farmers continue receiving support through enabling policies that have since seen capacity utilisation increasing especially in wheat production, he said. The conference is more like an economic caucus where deliberations at the conference are expected to centre on the economy, particularly progress made on implementing the Government economic blueprint, Zim-Asset, which cements the important role of private millers in complementing national efforts towards efficient grain provision. 