Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion Talk 263 &#8212; It is musician Beyonce who in her song Sorry said So what are you gonna say at my funeral now that you ve killed me. Here lies the body of the love of my life, whose heart I broke without a gun to my head . . . I feel we can adapt this and say . . . here lies 2016, the year which was full of ups and downs in the fashion industry, an influx of fashion shows some of which where unnecessary but only caused chaos in the fashion world with the designers, models and fashion icons.This was the year where the awards show where turned to circus, elegant, classic or trash because of those who didn t know how to dress better.We witnessed some wardrobe malfunction when a lot of celebrities chose to be trend-setters while at the same time losing the touch with bad outfits.It s also the same year when award winner designer Thembani Mubochwa made the much talked about designer dress Elephant dress which was won by Selmor Mtukudzi at the Zimbabwe Miserable Awards.The same year, most men embraced fashion and became very conscious. However, who will forget that as we were about to close the year another trend hit the street especially on Christmas Day the camouflage attire.One would think we were at war, more so with the fire-crackers.What was interesting about this attire was that it had no age limit and it was surprising that even the elders were caught in these clothes during the festive season.We wait to see how the public will respond to the ban by the Zimbabwe National Army that has since outlawed the of wearing any sort of camouflage unless has obtained prior permission.This means that musician Jah Prayzah who had inspired many is safe. For many, dressing up is a big part of celebrating New Year s Eve, which means the outfit planning begins now.Yes, we re still in 2016, and we re approaching 2017, meaning that your last year s wardrobe will become completely dated and useless.Do not mind me sometime because as a fashion critic it is my job to shop around for new trends but that doesn t mean you can t still work the old ones in fresh ways.According to some fashion gurus, the colour you should wear more in 2017 isn t black, but it is pretty damn close.For most fashion girls, a head-to-toe black outfit is a sacred look because you always look good and it s easy to put together.With the New Year quickly approaching, I am challenging you to make some tiny style changes, starting with a little less black and a little more navy blue.Avoid camouflage please because it is no longer allowed.Some are probably thinking, navy ?But if you ve been paying attention to street style photos, you know it s a shade that girls have always worn. Navy works as a base with everything from bold prints to bright colours and even pairs well with edgier pieces like leather.In fact, the street style shots ahead prove the neutral tone is as versatile and easy to co-ordinate outfits with as black. I even had to squint a few times at our screen to tell the dark hues apart.Although black will always be a safe and classic colour, do give it a rest and give navy a chance in 2017. You may even realise there are navy items hanging in your closet already. But if there aren t, start some shopping now plus some tips on how to style the colour.Take some cues from this street style star and invest in a savvy-coloured coat. Like black, the colour goes with everything in your closet. Use navy as the base colour of your outfit and layer any print like stripes or other colours on top without worrying about clashing.Remember to consider a navy piece the next time you re looking for something to pair with leatherHappy New Year and let s make it more fashionable.