Rev Chivaviro and his wife after receiving SABC Crown Gospel AwardStanely Mushava Arts Correspondent When Rev Chivaviro dropped his gospel bombshell, Ebenezer, he was announcing his arrival having been on the road for 16 years. Chivaviro who has been basking in warm critical reception at music awards recently took the Best of Africa gong at SABC Crown Gospel Awards. This is one of the best things to happen to us this year, while we are celebrating the nominations to the Permican Awards for our latest hit, Mhepo Inoperekedza , Ebenezer continues to shine on the international stage, Chivaviro spoke on the recognition.The clergyman was nominated for the same award for Mumwe Ariko Kumusoro but fell shy of the final grade. This time around we got it by grace. This crown shall always be a symbol of the journey so far in our musical journey and the grace that has located us through music, Chivaviro said. We also hope it inspires more and more gospel artists to continue working hard as well. Indeed, 2016 has been our year and God has favoured us in so many ways in this industry, he added.Other artistes crowned on the night include Dr Tumi, the biggest winner with six awards, Plain Truth, and gospel notables there present like Sipho Makhabane, Pastor Benjamin Dube, Jabu Hlongwane and Sfiso Ncwane.Although the hit, featuring Charles Charamba, Pastor Haisa, Noel Zembe, Machanic Manyeruke, Rumbi Zvirikuzhe and Kudzi Nyakudya trended last year, fans are still fastening on to it as it has since graduated into an events anthem, popular saying and favourite for gospel accolades. Talking of a good year, the Ebenezer video hit the million-view mark on YouTube two months ago, becoming the second Zimbabwean video to trend that far following Jah Prayzah s Watora Mari video.The unassuming pastor gave it all back to God again. There is nothing too special that we did, we just left it upon God s grace. I am sure there are so many better quality videos and better songs than this one but grace just picked on our song, he said.He revealed that his latest offering, the Mhepo Inoperekedza has been warmly received, giving a new lease of reception to the songs which were released early this year. Our next album is definitely coming next year as promised. We may drop a few singles before the release of the album but we promise our fans that it will be Rev Chivaviro neshamwari dzavo (collaboration hint), he said.Chivaviro promised to bring aboard Matthias Mhere, Shumba, Leonard Zhakata, Sabastian Magacha, Hlengiwe, Sipho Makhabane and others this time around.