Petros Kausiyo Deputy Sports Editor&#8212;A local sports academy coach has reckoned that one of his prodigies, Panashe Gama, could be the next Khama Billiat and believes an attachment at English Premiership side Manchester City for the 15-year old forward and 10 others could create opportunities for local players to ply their trade in the United Kingdom. In a rare opportunity for promising young footballers, a group of 11 local teenagers will next week travel to Manchester City an eight-day attachment during which they will get a chance to impress the club s junior coaches.The teenagers who are enrolled at a Harare academy &#8211; Global Sports Academy &#8211; will leave in the company of their coach Malvern Moyo for the tour during which they will also get chance to work with one of Sir Alex Ferguson s former assistants Mick Clegg.Rarely do local young players get opportunities to showcase their talents desire the proliferation of some academies in the country.The players who have secured the once in a lifetime opportunity include Kudakwashe Chitami, Godfrey Madanha, Angolan Mamhoud Mbemba, Evans Mugumira, Denzel Dzokamushure, Munashe Gatsi, Tony Kazingizi, Moses Muchemwa and Gama.Coach Moyo, however, revealed his admiration for Lomagundi College student Gama.Gama, however, received a huge confidence boost from his coach Moyo who is convinced the speedy forward who can excel on either flank could impress Clegg and the other junior coaches at City. Panashe s main training for physicality will be done by Mick Clegg but in terms of playing we are hoping that he will be able at City juniors. The club retained the junior coaches who used to work under Manuel Pellegrini which shows how good they are. If not he can try at the 3rd and 4th Division teams or even enroll as a High School student there (in the UK). Basically we are saying within that time that he will be in England, he has Manchester City, Manchester United and Lower Division clubs to look at and if he is taken by any of the clubs then there won t be any need for him to join the academies. Panashe s speed and reaction is top notch and the fact that he can play on both wings could see the English struggle to contain him. I think he could be the next Khama Billiat or a Kuda Mahachi and he has got such good shooting technique and can dribble a lot. He also has very good off the ball runs, Moyo said.Global Sports Academy, now in its fifth year has previously taken some footballers and sprinters to the United States, Canada and Spain and these include a girl Makomborero Tembo who is playing football in the United States while on a medical scholarship in Northern Texas.The academy also has on its books sprinter Nigel Jena who qualified for the World Junior athletics Championships.But it is the trip to Barclays Premiership giants Manchester City that has left both the players and their coach as much excited, as they are anxious that this could open up bigger avenues for some of them.Gama &#8211; was yesterday relishing the chance to train in a professional set up and more importantly possibly convince the Manchester City junior coaches to take him on board the Citizens structures. This opportunity I m getting to go and try out with top football clubs in England, is very special to me, because I ve always wanted to have a chance like this ever since I started kicking a ball. Lots of people dream for this opportunity, but not all them get to have this wonderful chance, for me it is special because I want to be a professional football player, and all those famous people started at this age, so I am working towards that and this only comes once. Well I feel nervous, it s obviously not easy but I just have to keep my head down and play my football. Of course for some of my colleagues it is their second time to go to Europe and they are a bit casual about it, Gama said.Moyo also revealed that earlier this year he took another group of young talent to Spain on a similar mission. This is the second group that we are taking. We were in Spain and there Tirikwavo got an award for the best junior player and also had Madanha who is at Churchill excelling. We also have another exciting player Aaron Dzeka a midfielder who was spotted by national coach Callisto Pasuwa during the Willard Katsande tournament in Mutare who is doing very well at the academy, Moyo said.Moyo said although he had confidence in all his players, his only worry was the weather conditions that are likely to greet them in England where it is now winter. We are hoping to also watch one two games there. While we don t doubt the players abilities, one thing that we cannot protect them from is the cold, said Moyo