St John s team going through their pace at the competitionMunyaradzi Chamalimba in Midrand, South Africa&#8212;Marist Brothers High School of Nyanga won the Thabo Mbeki legacy trophy, four scholarships from Pearson institute of high education and 15000 rand spending money at the just ended second edition of the National School Quiz Championship SADC regional championships in Johannesburg, South Africa on Tuesday. The competition had 23 competing schools from Botswana, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe.The Catholic school battled it out with Rand College from SA in the finals and finally won after a series of sudden-death questions.Speaking at the end of the tournament Thabo Mbeki Foundation Chief executive officer Mr Max Boqwana applauded Marist Brothers for their composure and determination. Marist you have been inspirational.Traveling all the way from Zimbabwe for a purpose and, despite the challenges that you might have met along the way, you managed to conquer.This is the kind of a spirit that we need among young Africans, he said.Boqwana underlined that the tournament addressed the fundamentals of the Thabo Mbeki foundation of having a unified Africa. As a foundation with such investment in education, we look forward to a peaceful Africa which is rich and led by smart people who understand the importance of unity and working together for the development of the continent. Marist Brothers Captain Takudzwa Caitano was happy with the team s performance as they stayed composed during the tournament with the knowledge that they were not representing their school only, but Zimbabwe at large. We came prepared to battle it out and make a mark on a regional stage and we have just done that and we have made our nation proud and lifted the Zimbabwean flag higher in a foreign land. He also took an opportunity to appreciate the support and solidarity they received from other teams and encouraged schools to take academics as a sport.Marist Brothers being crowned winners of the 2016 National schools Quiz competition Many thanks go to all the teams that supported us all the way through, without forgetting the teachers who kept encouraging us especially during our dark moments . We have realised that education is a unifying sport and, given enough support and time, such tournaments will transform nations, unify schools and break educational boundaries across the globe. We say to God be the glory and our eyes are now fixed on the 2018 world championship he said.Tsitsi Chaparika of St Davies Bonda was awarded with a Spirit Award which is given to a spirited and determined student who would have shown a strong character and ability during the tournament. This comes on the background that her mother passed on last Friday and regardless of the misfortune she led the team with confidence and composure into the quarter finals where they were eliminated.