Port Elizabeth. South Africa captured two vital wickets in the last session to move closer to victory against Sri Lanka on the fourth day of the first test at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth yesterday, despite the dogged determination displayed by a valiant Sri Lanka to reach 240 for five at the close in their quest for a world-record fourth-innings chase of 488.The skipper, Angelo Mathews, unbeaten on 58, and Kusal Mendis, who was adventure personified in his knock of 58, were unnerved and unfazed by the massive winning target. They shared in a 75-run partnership off 108 balls while the four-men South African attack toiled without much luck on a flat track.The hosts were not helped by one clear dropped catch in the outfield and two more half chances that were not snaffled.The Proteas declared their innings closed midway through the morning spell on 406 for six. Faf du Plessis (67*) and Quinton de Kock (69) shared in a 129-run partnership for the sixth wicket and the skipper declared after De Kock was trapped in front by Rangana Herath.The Sri Lankans shared in two useful partnerships in pursuit of the 488 set for a win. Dimuth Karunaratne and Kaushal Silva fashioned 87 runs off 198 balls to get them off to a solid and fluent start.The Sri Lankans, whose top-order collapsed to 22 for three in the first innings, had South Africa head-scratching. The openers played with controlled aggression and showed memorable restraint.They did not flash too much at deliveries outside the off-stump. Silva was offered two reprieves. He offered half a chance to the wicketkeeper, De Kock, off Rabada when on five. On 31, Dean Elgar made a valiant effort at mid-wicket to grab a drive by Silva, but could not hold onto a sharp chance. When Karunaratne was run out for 43 after hesitation and a mid-pitch stumble, Kusal Perera flashed disastrously at a wider Keshav Maharaj-delivery and was caught behind for 6. Kagiso Rabada trapped the in-form Silva in front just after lunch for 48.Mendis, hero of the first-test win against Australia earlier in 2016 with a determined 176, showed his class all around the park. Supersport.com 