Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter JOSEPHINE Chitembwe, whose son Lloyd made history when he became the first CAPS United son to lead the Green Machine to the league championship, has spoken of her pride after years of heartbreak. The former Zimbabwe international guided Makepekepe to success in the championship race after the Harare giants finished two points clear of the chasing pack. I am just happy, especially if I recall the way he grew up, Chitembwe s mother, who is also a Member of Parliament, said. He has achieved a lot and the nation must join us in celebrating because even the FIFA president congratulated CAPS United through our ZIFA president Dr Philip Chiyangwa It was my first time to hear such a case where the FIFA president congratulates the winner of the local title. I stopped Lloyd from going to Botswana and I told him that I was not going to bless him if he left CAPS United. I did not expect the league title, although I always prayed for him and Norman (Mapeza). I am proud of the two boys and to Nomara I say next season it will be his. My two sons have made Zimbabwe proud. They have showed the nation that they are the best of the best and I hope their clubs will keep on supporting them. Norman and Lloyd are ruling the roost and I hope they will keep up the good work. Chitembwe s mother was almost in tears when she recalled when the CAPS United leadership, under Twine Phiri, fired her son on August 4, 2012.It was also the day Lloyd s younger brother died. I phoned him when he was in Bulawayo (going to Hwange), informing him about his young brother s death, she said. He made a U-turn and came back to Harare. It was a double blow to him, to us and he said he would not watch a CAPS United match again. He was hurt by the Phiri management and it took Jere to convince me last season to talk to my son and ask him to go back and coach Makepekepe.He only needed one-and-half years to lift the trophy that had eluded CAPS United for the past 11 years. Twine (Phiri) appeared not to like Lloyd even though at one point it was Lloyd who saved his car from being damaged by angry fans as he risked his life in protecting his boss when he was still a player, but he went on to fire him and showed faith in Taurai Mangwiro and also employed Sean Connor, who never did anything special to CAPS United, the team I started supporting in 1973. I only supported Darryn T when Norman and Lloyd played for the team but I belong to the green family. My worst moment was when CAPS United lost to Darryn T and the late Headmaster (Joel Shambo) was substituted when he was marked out of the match by Chitembwe. When Lloyd returned from Poland, she insisted that he should play for CAPS United. I approached Freddy Mkwesha and told him to take Lloyd to CAPS United and he has never looked back, she said. I just loved the team and I recall the days when Edelbert (Dinha) Frank (Nyamukuta), Stewart (Murisa) Alois (Bunjira) made CAPS a great team and even if Lloyd leaves the club, I will continue supporting it. When Jere took over, he just needed two years to win the league, which shows he has the vision and he was also blessed to have Lloyd and the spirited players in his team. She feels Jere and Phiri should work together as they used to do in the past.