WanaiNaledi Sande: Arts ReporterMusic is her passion and Wadzanai Ndudzo is living her dream. Best known as Wanai, her second album is what has brought her to the limelight following a not-so-successful first album. I have always wanted to be a singer. In all the schools I attended, I always participated in school choirs attending competitions and being a lead vocalist too. Music was an inborn thing. I always wanted to sing so when I got the chance after high school, I went for it, said bubbly Wanai.Wanai is a jazz and Afro-pop musician who occasionally sings traditional music as well. She went to Emmanuel High school and as soon as she finished her high school, she released her first single in 2005.She released her first album called Book of Love in 2014 after years of trying to find her place in the music industry. Although I was not that serious with music when I produced my singles, I think when I made Book of Love , I gave it my all. My first album had more of the jazz feel into it but I twisted it a bit on my second album. Her second album titled Shinga , released August this year has good songs like Shinga featuring Shiga Shiga, Pindirai Tete , Ndiye Uye and Mudiwa Wangu featuring Progress Chipfumo.The album was recorded at Maselo Productions and is a mixture of Afro-pop and traditional music. Her music inspirations are Brenda Fassie, Yvonne Chaka-Chaka and Chiwoniso Maraire who she grew up listening to.Hailing from Malborough she is the ninth child and has 11 siblings. Wanai describes her relationship with her family as one that even the earthquake cannot tear. Her father has always been supportive in her music career as he pays for recordings and helps out in other needs of the field. He is my sponsor and ever since I started singing; from my first album to this one. Her mother on the other hand is her pillar of strength and supports her in the emotional roller coaster of life. My mother is my best friend. We click so much; she makes me happy when I m down. We laugh all the way and she keeps me strong when things are not well. She also supports me in my music and attends my shows. Like many local artistes, Wanai writes her own music and is inspired by her life experiences mostly love, heartbreaks and preserving family values.She feels her greatest achievement so far is her second album. So far Shinga is being received very well and I have received a lot of good feedback for it. I know I will make more beautiful music in future and have support. Wanai hopes to grow bigger as a musician, reaching the global scene. I see myself being the big five in Zimbabwe and of cause make impact internationally. The struggle is for many female local artistes about being recognised in the industry. The music industry is tough for females because the promoters sideline us. They focus on male artistes mostly. They can invite you to a show but that is very rare. It would be much easier for us if we could get promoters that will be willing to assist us. Most club owners prefer male artistes so that has been a major setback for me as an artiste. She recalled her first performance in Chivhu where she was the only female artiste at a largely urban grooves show and described it as a great performance. I went with Taurai Mandebvu, Goodchild, Shinsoman and Leornard Mapfumo in 2012. Of cause I was nervous but it turned out great. She is a single mother of an eight-year-old son and is in a relationship with a man whose name she refused to disclose. My son Sean has made me a better person and has changed me in a way of learning to be responsible financially. He has made strive to work more because as a single mother, he is the one I m working for in order to meet his needs such as school fees, clothes and food. During her free time, Wanai loves watching action series and right now she is following American crime drama television series, Power . I have always wanted to work with Progress Chipfumo and I did it on my latest album. Right now I would want to work with Cynthia Mare and Ammara Brown because they sing songs with powerful messages. Of cause Jah Prayzah is one artiste I am sure everyone wants to work with in Zimbabwe. Wanai is currently working on videos for her album Shinga that will be released next year.