Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis&#8212; Then Elisha said, Hear ye the word of the Lord; thus saith the Lord, Tomorrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria. Then a lord on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God, and said, Behold if the Lord would make the windows in heaven, might this thing be? And he said, Behold, thou shall see it with thine eyes, but shall not eat thereof. And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate: and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we do? If we say, We will enter into the city, and we shall die here: and if we sit still here, we die also. Now thereof come, and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians: if they save us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die. 2 Kings 7:1-4.2016 the year of a double portion is not yet over! Here is one powerful key to help you finish the year in decision. The very thing that has crippled lives, organisations, families and even nations in this good year and many previous years is inability to make decisions, right decisions. Indecision opens doors to mediocrity, religion and routine. It stifles initiative and creativity. It holds and binds from moving on. If you have been stuck for a long time; be it in your marriage, social life, work, business, finances or spiritual life this is your article, it s time to progress, this December is your month to shift gears!Above is our text from the Bible; a good story about an entire city that was bound for a long time through a siege. Enemies had shut the doors and were waiting to kill and destroy them. Hunger was extremely prevalent. People were eating things that you would not dream would be eaten donkeys heads and droppings of birds. The king gave a command for Elisha to be brought to him, saying he wanted to kill him as the perceived troublemaker of the drought.Elisha however, bold and without fear, came with a good word. He came with urgent good news! Are you stuck, broken and in a predicament right now? Friend I also have a good word for you God is able and is on your side; you are coming out. Elisha declared before the king and entire city that by that time the following day, drought will be over! Oooo here was a 24-hour miracle! As you read this article today may you also experience your 24-hour miracle in Jesus name!However, despite the powerful and clear declaration and word from the Lord, one big man close to the king despised the Word and verbally expressed his doubt and contempt by challenging that even if God would open the windows of heaven drought would not end just like that in Samaria. Reader, hear this secret today; never doubt the word of God. Doubt your doubt. The Word of God never lies. It always comes to pass ooo hallelujah!Elisha didn t argue with the general, he just declared that the man would see the Word of God come to pass but he would not eat the fruits of the Word. When you doubt the Word of God, you lose out. You see others being blessed but you do not experience it yourself. Truly the following day, the man tried to control the people who were rushing for the barley and wheat as the man of God had said but was trampled upon and died. He saw it but he never enjoyed it! Learn from this; don t doubt God.When 24-hour miracle word was given; interestingly outside the city, four men, leprous, began to take action in line with the word. They did not continue to sit where they were, No, they made up their minds and made a decision to move on; to take a step of faith into the word of God. They forgot that they were outcasts, nobodies, men who were leaving outside the city and took action toward the enemies camp.Friend, a decision in the direction of the Word of God will change your life forever. You have to decide in your heart what you want. If you don t decide, 10 years from now, you will still be where you are today. The men made a decision and moved. Progress is hid in a decision. To all those married today, had you not made the decision you would still be unmarried today. All it took was a decision, progress and developments followed!Interestingly, for you to make a decision you first need a revelation. You need a revelation of where you are in your life. You must know where you are financially, spiritually and all areas of your life before you can make a bold move of progress. If you do not know where you are you will not know what to decide or act on. May God give you a revelation of where you are in the name of Jesus! You need to know where your family is, where your children are, where your life is spiritually before you can boldly decide for the better.Some of you, when your plans are about to come to fruition something negative always comes up and divert your focus, finances and all sources. It s either someone falls sick, dies or gets in trouble which changes your entire programme and plan. You respond well and act responsibly, which is good but why is it always when you are about to rise those things always come up? If you are in that situation, I challenge you today; enough is enough in Jesus name! It has to change. What is yours is yours.When your promotion has come, it has come. When you are expecting something and it s coming, let it come in the name of Jesus. Today let s make a decision together with me; that none of your dreams, visions, goals and desires shall be aborted or miscarried in the name of Jesus. Decide today. Decide a better future, a better life, a better marriage, better lifestyle and all. It s possible! When you decide; Act. For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27.