Members of the Police Band take a break during a performance. The ZRP now also boasts a number of budding writers who are determined to make a name for themselves in the cut-throat world of book publishingStanely Mushava Literature Today A comically urbanised Bible translation reads: Oh child, you think police officers are there to be admired in their uniforms? No, they are not. Offhand, anyone can throw 10 responses to the question, salutary and otherwise. But none of these would be complete if they fail to acknowledge the Zimbabwe Republic Police s contribution to the arts.If it is not their high-octane mass displays, it is their choreographic precision or wow-inspiring soundtracks to state events but the force is generally favoured by the muses.Cde Chinx, an institution apart in Zimbabwe s music history, has enjoyed the backing of the Police Band while its choral equivalent s acrobatic innovations have lately become a site of interest.Aside group efforts, police officers have also made individual marks in the creative industries.Classic figureheads in the cultural strivings of the force include August Musarurwa whose harmonica masterpiece, Skokiaan , was covered more an incredible hundred times.Emerging from a mid-century subculture converging music, sex, gang culture and potent, backyard brews, Musarurwa s instrumental drew homage from credible names in jazz including Louis Armstrong.The force s musical consistency has, however, not been matched in other art disciplines. Besides Edmund Musundire of Nyanga yeNzou and Mhandu dzeRusununguko fame and James Kawara of Sergeant Chimedza fame, it is not easy to locate literary notables in the police force.And now, new voices are emerging from police ranks to stoke the fire. Stephen Mutsago of ZRP Macheke and Fabian Choto of ZRP Rusape recently self-published books titled Vicious Circle and Wajaira respec- tively. Vicious Circle is a colourful and fast-paced, if occasionally incredulous, detective novel, while Wajaira is a thematically varied poetry collection.At 25, with time and talent on his side, Mutsago demonstrates narrative promise that can be harnessed.His book is an emotionally taxing effort dedicated to his late brother who died in a road accident this year and laden with the author s personal values.It stars Inspector Mutsago, the meticulous detective mandated with throwing the legal dragnet on a criminal cult perpetrating murder, robbery, fraud and ritualistic crimes in Mutare.Mutsago, nicknamed HOD, reflects the author s Christian convictions which he stands on to defeat the vicious circle .It flaunts investigative stratagems in the bloody showdown but an inordinate share of spiritual cop-outs and excessively emotional tendencies have the book leaning towards a Nollywood production. I am a social commentator. I was inspired to write by the plight of people in need of answers to frequently asked questions. I also write as a way to find remedy to the decaying society, Mutsago told Literature Today. I am trying to reassure the citizens in Zimbabwe and beyond that the police never rest until crime is eradicated. Also, I am trying to help them understand that crime can start as a small fire but if unnoticed it can grow into a vicious crisis, he said.The biggest flaw in the book is a sudden switch from the third person narrative to the first person narrative mode. Mutsago could have easily evaded the problem by retaining an omniscient narrator through the novel.The police officer started writing when he was at school but says he had neither resources to publish his books nor the information on how to go about it. As I joined the police, I met with quite a number of journalists and academics who encouraged me to publish the book. My dream is to see my book being considered as a set book and being recognised as one of the best, the young author confided.The dream is within reach provided Mutsago troubleshoots the few irregularities in the novel and trims his words to imagist economy. I have written quite a number of books but due to inadequate resources I find myself shelving my scripts. I enjoy writing as a cop because there is plenty of time to do so. I write when I am off or even after duty, he said.Choto, the author of Wajaira , is the station chaplain at Rusape Central Police Station. His anthology addresses everyday situations with the immediacy of a performance poet.Interestingly, the title of Choto s collection presents an inversion of gender-based violence, traditionally prejudicing womankind. The persona turns the tables and flares the fire inhibited in her heart on the perpetrator.Other poems are rather domestic, not a bad choice considering the dwindling appreciation of poetry in the country. My aim is to revive the Shona literature as many despise our own Shona which is our mother language, Choto said.Originally a teacher, he has performed his poems at Highfield High School and Kwayedza High School.He has also written poetry in English has published several motivational articles in Outpost, the police monthly.Choto shares his Macheke counterpart s spiritual orientation. He holds a diploma in theology and is currently reading another evangelically themed programme at a Christian university in Mutare. I never shelved my dream to become a published author since my school days. I write to provide a richer life perspective and broaden readers appreciation of society, said the writing inspector.Following Commissioner-General Augustine Chihuri s academic strivings, these new books are an encouraging window of activity within the force.Detective novels were once the mainstay of literature in Shona. With police officers taking up the genre, there may yet be more action.Sadly, Vicious Circle and Wajaira have the flaws of bootstrap projects without the benefits of professional editing and institutional support, a challenge shared by many young authors denied the midwifery of big publishers.