See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Ephesians 5:15-17 According to this portion of scripture, if one is not able to understand the will of the Lord it is a sign that he is not wise at all. If you are wise, you understand the will of the Lord.God wants us to produce and to multiply, it is His will and if we do not know that we are not wise. Being wise enables us to know the will of God which is to prosper, to multiply, to have dominion, to have control and to be in charge. God created you to be the overseer of this physical world.Time is a factor which is very important and it is a key. Inasfar as success is concerned, time is a requirement which you cannot do without. It is one of the most important gifts that God gave to us. If we are to prosper in what we do then time has to be observed because it plays a very significant role. We need to look at the importance of time and how we can maximise on it. If your entire life is going to change, you do not change it by changing the entire life but by simply changing your day.If you focus on changing your life it is a huge assignment that you cannot even accomplish. Your life is too big and you are going too far than where you are. Trying to change your entire life from where you are is almost impossible but you can change your life by simply changing one day at a time.Time is very important to a point where God is also controlled by time. He controls time but He is also controlled by time. He allows time to control Him but the time that controls God is not our Chronos time but the Kairos or the Spirit time. That is the time that God deals with and it governs His activities.That is why even Jesus could not come until it was the fullness of time. The plan that God had for us for the coming of the Messiah to redeem us from the curse of the law was already set but still God could not release Jesus until it was time for Jesus to come. In the coming of Jesus you also see time factoring in.We were so much in need of Jesus blood but His blood was supposed to be offered at the right time. If it was offered at the wrong time then it was not going to serve the purpose that it served. Jesus came to die but when he was born they wanted to kill Him whilst He was still a child and the Angel advised Joseph to run away with Him to Egypt.He ran away from death and yet He came to die, He was supposed to die but at the right time. Time is very important, even when it comes to marriage you have to marry at the right time, when it comes to making money you have to make it at the right time. It is the same blood of Jesus that was needed but it was needed at the right time.If God is operating within the frames of time who are we to be excluded? If you investigate and try to find out what exactly makes time so important you will discover that it is not really time that makes time so important. The difference between the rich and the poor is simply how the rich and the poor manage their time.What the rich people are doing with their time is different from what the poor are doing with their time. When it comes to time, God gave all of us the rich and the poor the same amount of time. If it was money that was given, we would think that some were given more money than others. If it were talents that were given, some would say other people were talented more than others.But when it comes to time, the same amount was given to the rich man and to the poor man, to the white person and to the black person. Everybody was given 365 days a year, 24 hours a day and seven days a week. The difference is in how we utilise the time given to us.Time is so precious before God. Maybe the time that you have now was a prayer for money that you did. You were asking for money and what you got was time. When you ask God for money what He gives you is time because most of what we are asking for is hidden within time. God instead of giving you money He will give you time so that you can make money.People usually say that once you have lost time you can never recover it but there are scriptures in the Word of God where time can be recovered but it is a miracle. Job was told that he shall be returned to the days of his youth. (His flesh shall be fresher than a child s: he shall return to the days of his youth. Job 33:25).You can also have that miracle of time recovery where your time can be restored and given back to you. Sometimes in life when you have things that you have lost and God promises you that you will recover everything you have lost it might not be everything you lost that you recover but time. Everything that you might have lost was hidden in time. The problem with most Christians is that they spend most of their time asking God for time. They spend time asking God for more time.In the Book of Joel 2:25 God says: And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten, the cankerworm, and the caterpillar, and the palmerworm, my great army which I sent among you. God restores the time that was taken away from you. If God wants to restore your money back to you He simply restores you time. If time can be restored it means money can also be restored.When time is restored you will have material substance. All of your losses right now it is simply time you have lost. Time itself will never bring a difference between you and your neighbour, what brings a difference is what you do with it.&nbsp;https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwaHelpline: +263 4 339341info@emmanuelmakandiwa.com