LINDA SAMURIWOSophia Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent &#8212; With only a day to go before tying the knot with her husband Suluman Chimbetu at Zimbali Gardens in Greendale tomorrow, Linda Samuriwo is on cloud nine. The couple has been customarily married for eight years and blessed with two children, a girl and a boy. In an interview, Linda who was jovial, said it is a dream come true to her since they have been through a lot together, but their love conquered it all. You know we have been together with Sulu for eight years now and we have been through thick and thin but we managed to sail through. Our greatest strength is our love, I love him and he loves me so the wedding is an icing on the cake because since the day we started dating, I considered myself a member of Chimbetu family and the wedding is just going to make it formal, she said.Asked about the preparations, Linda said though there was a bit of pressure, they were making sure that everything is in place for the big day. You know how these things are, there is pressure and sometimes the preparations are a bit stressful but I am happy that I managed to pull through and I can safely say that everything is almost in place now, she said.She also revealed her bridal team with Jah Prayzah s wife being the best lady. My bridal team will have Jah Prayzah s wife Rufaro as my best lady since she is my best friend, then Cynthia Bizure who is my friend also, my aunt Hazel Chimbetu, Barbara Machaya my cousin sister, Yvonne Sungu my sister s daughter and Georgina Dure who is another friend of mine, she said. Unfortunately, Linda said her children will not attend the ceremony but will join their parents at the after-party since the wedding is a strictly no children affiair. Unfortunately, our wedding is not going to be an ordinary wedding, it is a wedding with a difference so no children are allowed at the ceremony. Our children will also not be there when we tie the knot but will join us at the after party, she said.The after-party has been set for Belgravia Sports Club where several musicians are set to perform. After the wedding, Sulu will go on stage and other artistes to perform are Jah Prayzah, Tryson Chimbetu, Hope Masike and Seh Calaz.