JAH CUREOwn CorrespondentJamaican musician Jah Cure who is set to perform at Harare International Conference Centre on Friday has exhibited enthusiasm ahead of the tour. In a video posted on social media over the weekend, the Jamaican artiste said he is ready for a historic concert. Zimbabwe, we are on the way. I am in Amsterdam because I am on my way to Zimbabwe. I am very happy and I am expecting best time and best treatment. I am coming to see my brothers and sisters. My job is to make people happy. Zimbabwe here I come, said Jah Cure.He is expected in the country tomorrow and will visit a number of places to familiarise with the country before he performs on Friday. According to his online profile, Jah Cure s first big break came in March 1997 when he released the single King in this Jungle which was a duet with Sizzla. The single was produced by Beres Hammond who went on to become his mentor.He then released a steady stream of singles that won him critical and popular acclaim. Beres Hammond eventually took Cure under his tutelage and began mentoring him and producing his music in the studio. In 1998, Cure performed on a European tour and visited several Caribbean Islands with Beres Hammond and the Harmony House Family.His first album was released in 2000, it was followed by Ghetto Life in 2003 and Freedom Blues in 2005. He also did songs Love Is , Longing For and True Reflections , showing his unique voice and lyrical ability.In 2008, Jah Cure released Hot Long Time featuring Junior Reid. The Universal Cure was released in the US on 14 April 2009. The album features Hot Long Time (featuring Junior Reid, Flo Rida, and Mavado.), as well as Mr. Jailer and Journey .At the end of 2010, following the success of Jah Cure s single Unconditional Love featuring Phyllisia, SoBe Entertainment released the second single off Jah Cure s upcoming World Cry album, titled Like I See It featuring Rick Ross and Mavado.On 11 December 2012, SoBe Entertainment released Jah Cure s sixth studio album, World Cry , digitally to the world. The physical release was scheduled for 29 January 2013. His album The Cure was released in July 2015. It topped the Billboard Reggae Albums chart in its first week of release and was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Reggae Album in 2016