Ms MpariwaZvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter Mufakose Member of the National Assembly Ms Paurina Mpariwa (MDC-T) on Tuesday called for the outlawing of polygamy, saying this will help curb child marriages. This, however, drew a backlash from fellow legislators particularly male Members of Parliament who felt that child marriages and polygamy were not inter- related.Ms Mpariwa made the call in the National Assembly while debating a motion moved by Mutare Central MP Mr Innocent Gonese (MDC-T), who called on the nation to adopt a model law on child marriages that was passed by the Sadc Parliamentary Forum in Swaziland, in June this year. We need to do away with polygamy. There is need for one man one wife. If that is upheld we will end child marriages. It will make men behave, said Ms Mpariwa.She said young girls might not understand the importance of the Marriage Act Chapter 5:11, which criminalised marrying more than one wife. If you marry a minor, it is not fair in that she does not have an appreciation of her rights, she said.But Uzumba MP Cde Simba Mudarikwa (Zanu-PF) castigated Ms Mpariwa saying there was nothing wrong with polygamy as long as it was done correctly.Cde Mudarikwa In some countries, men have died because of war, so there is need to replace those people, said Cde Mudarikwa.He slammed Ms Mpariwa for straying from the motion to talk about polygamy when the motion focused on child mar- riages.Chegutu West MP Cde Dexter Nduna (Zanu-PF) said poverty contributed to child marriages and there was need to revive industry such as David Whitehead to improve socio-economic conditions.Meanwhile, Buhera South MP Cde Joseph Chinotimba (Zanu-PF) took a dig at Matabeleland North Proportionate Representative MP Ms Lwazi Sibanda (MDC-T), who was recently caught cheating in an exam.Ms Sibanda, who is studying for a degree in development studies with the Zimbabwe Open University, was stopped from writing the examination after she was caught cheating. What impression does it give for someone who is regarded as honourable to be caught cheating in an exam? The word honourable is a respectable term, said Cde Chinotimba.In a related matter, Chegutu East MP Cde Webster Shamu said good corporate governance was the cornerstone for the country s economic recovery.Cde Shamu was making a contribution to the President s Speech delivered when he officially opened the Fourth Session of the Eighth Parliament. Good economic (policies) and good corporate governance are fundamental pre-conditions for Zimbabwe s economic recovery. It contributes towards macro-economic stability; it enhances the Government s ability to implement developmental and poverty reduction policies with scarce resources, said Cde Shamu.