Ishamel TsakatsaTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter &#8212; Local award-winning designer, Ishamel Tsakatsa affectionately known Zargue sia left the country yesterday for Tanzania ahead of Swahili Fashion Week. Tsakatsa, who is the creative director of Luxury Zimbabwean fashion brand, is set to showcase his Spring/Summer Collection 2017 at the renowned and ninth edition of Swahili Fashion Week which is set for Dar es Salaam from December 2-4.Swahili Fashion Week is the largest annual fashion event in East and Central Africa that is geared towards being the most sought-after and preferred fashion platform in the continent for the international market, promoting the Made in Africa concept.It was founded by celebrated Tanzanian couturier, Mustafa Hassanali in 2008. In an interview, Zargue sia public relations and communications manager, Beryl Kanyowa said they were excited about the latest developments. She said this will not only boost Zargue sia s profile but will put Zimbabwe on the map. We are pleased that Tsakatsa has left for the Swahili Fashion Week. He has already done some of the creations he will display, some of which have been showcased before, she said.Kanyowa said Zargue sia latest collection for the season is inspired by the book The Power Of Your Mind by Rev Chris Oyakhilome. The designs will fetaure the colours red, champagne and off whites. It s a fusion of the Victorian era styles and modern day silhouettes. Lot s of volume and drama!, she said. Most importantly every detail will certainly be delicately crafted and tailored. Having recently been showcased at the well-received and inaugural, The September Fashion Issue, Tsakatsa s suave designs are likely to get attention on the Swahili Fashion Week runway, which is undeniably one of Africa s leading fashion affairs and a hub of fashion enthusiast.Considered one of Zimbabwe most sought-after talents, Tsakatsa has a number of accolades under his fashionable belt, not just locally but across the continent.His awards include, Future Africa Leaders Award 2015, Lagos Nigeria; Best Entrepreneur Award 2015, University of Zimbabwe Vice Chancellor s Awards; and Zimbabwean Designer of the Year Award 2014, Zimbabwe Fashion Week.