Cde KasukuwereTendai Mugabe Senior Reporter Zanu-PF political commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere, allegedly engineered the suspension of the party s Harare provincial deputy chairperson Cde Robert Kahanana after he refused to deny the authenticity of a leaked audio clip exposing how the national commissar rigged the Norton primary elections. Some influential officials in the revolutionary party imposed Cde Ronald Chindedza, who lost the by-election to an independent candidate Mr Temba Mliswa.Although Cde Kahanana on Wednesday refused to discuss party issues with the press, The Herald is reliably informed that a decision was passed that he should be suspended from all party activities for three years.Mr Kahanana told The Herald: Sorry I cannot help you on that matter. His suspension comes at time when President Mugabe is calling for voter mobilisation and unity of purpose in the party ahead of the 2018 harmonised elections.Sources said the suspension was largely influenced by Cde Kasukuwere, who felt that Cde Kahanana was behind the leaked audio clip.Recently, Cde Kasukuwere addressed a rally in Epworth where he accused Cde Kahanana of lying that votes were rigged in Norton.A provincial member from Harare who spoke to The Herald said: In the first place, there was no reason for Cde Kahanana to appear before the provincial disciplinary committee. Cde Kasukuwere, who felt that Cde Kahanana had a hand in the leaked audio implicating him in the Nortion saga, pressured the province to discipline Cde Kahanana. We were told that he wanted Cde Shadreck Mashayamombe to chair the disciplinary committee because he is one of his good boys , to ensure that their pre-conceived outcome would not be tampered with.It was then argued that Cde Mashayamombe was also implicated in the same audio clip so there was no way he could come up with an impartial judgment on the matter. Secretary for legal affairs Cde Honour Taedzwa later chaired the hearing, but still, the committee did not constitute a quorum. Only three members of the disciplinary committee attended the hearing. Another source said Cde Kasukuwere s unrestrained interference with provincial operations was likely to cost the party. We are worried with his behaviour, said the source. The way he is interfering with our operations is not healthy for the party. His approach of resolving disputes is driving people away, yet we are drifting towards an important election. Cdes Kasukuwere and Mashayamombe were not answering their mobile phones yesterday.