ANGELINA JOLIEAngelina Jolie is reportedly asking Brad Pitt to help find a new therapist to help their children deal with the what happened on that private jet three months ago. According to TMZ, Angelina s attorney emailed 52-year-old Brad s legal team on December 1 to suggest they take joint sessions with a trauma specialist to learn how to support their children.The wording makes clear that Angelina (41) thinks the children are struggling to deal with what they saw on the plane. It is worth noting that last month, the FBI said Brad will face no charges over an alleged altercation with one of his children on a private plane.An investigation into the reported clash between the actor and his 15-year-old adopted son Maddox has been closed after a review of the circumstances , the agency said.The alleged incident happened just days before Pitt s wife Angelina Jolie filed for divorce on September 19. Together they have twins Vivienne and Knox, aged eight, as well as Shiloh (10), Zahara (11), Pax (13), and Maddox (15).TMZ previously reported that in September, both sides agreed to attend family therapy sessions as part of their temporary custody agreement. Yet in documents, Brad s attorney suggested their 2 eldest boys, Maddox and Pax, might not want to visit their father and it s still unknown if Brad has responded to Angelina s request. MailOnline has contacted a spokesperson for both Angelina and Brad for comment.Brad was denied an emergency hearing to request that custody battle with Angelina Jolie be made private. A judge refused the Allied actor s request to have documents relating to the court case between the former couple sealed on Wednesday, and Brad will now have to wait until January.Los Angeles Superior Court Richard J. Burdge Jr. denied the request in a brief written order that states the filing did not meet the requirements for sealing details at this time. The judge declined to hear the petition on an expedited basis. Brad told the court he was worried for his children. I am extremely concerned that if court records regarding custody are not sealed, information contained therein will cause irreparable damage to our children s privacy rights, he said in a sworn written declaration filed on Wednesday.Angelina s attorneys wrote in court filings that Brad was looking out for himself and not his children. His request is a thinly veiled attempt to shield himself, rather than the minor children, from public view, the actress attorneys wrote.Brad will now have to wait until their next hearing on January 17 to try to get again to get the documents sealed. The emergency hearing comes after Angelina reportedly filed new documents last week regarding their temporary custody agreement.Brad s representatives did not wish to comment on this latest development, while Angelina s have yet to respond to DailyMail.com s request for comment. Pitt has just come off a press tour for his film Allied starring Marion Cotillard. Angelina filed for divorce in September and currently has primary custody of their six children. Dailymail.