Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter&#8212;THE Zimbabwe Republic Police Support Unit volleyball team is scheduled to leave the country this morning for the annual Zone VI Championships in Swakopmund, Namibia. The team had a send-off ceremony on Wednesday in which Angeline Guvamombe was the guest of honour at Chikurubi. The Support Unit Volleyball Club will grace the championships after winning the Harare Volleyball Leagues in the men and women s categories.The Zone VI games will run from December 11-20 and Zimbabwe will be well represented by the two teams from the local police elite unit.Speaking at the send-off ceremony, Officer Commanding Support Unit and guest of honour, Guvamombe, said the tournament was important as it is a qualifier for the Africa Volleyball Club Championships. We have gathered here to bid farewell to our men and women volleyball teams that are destined for Namibia. The Zone VI volleyball championships require top two teams per gender and the event serves as a qualifier for the Africa Volleyball Club Championship and so it is important. This is a tournament which every club dreams to be part of and for our men s team they have been participating in this tournament since 2012 while the women were there in 2013 and 2014. I am pleased that you once participated in the Africa Volleyball Championships in Tunisia last year and the experience is vital as it will expose you to superior tactics, said Guvamombe.The team received a lot of support from the corporate world who included Doves Funeral Services, Mineral Marketing Cooperation of Zimbabwe, Topics, First Mutual Life Assurance and Lafarge, among others. Speaking on behalf of the sponsors, MMCZ representative Rodrick Chikwira, said they were happy to be part of the team. We will always be behind Support Unit and we will continue our partnership, said Chikwira.Doves Funeral Services provided both teams with playing kits and their communications executive, Kuda Mutandi, said they were happy to be associated with winners. We are happy as Doves Funeral Services to be associated with champions and we hope our support will help them do well in Namibia, he said.Charles Makumi is the head of delegation. Meanwhile, a bus carrying a delegation from the Ministry of Sport and Recreation was involved in an accident, just outside Harare, yesterday.The officials were going to Hwange for the Youths in Education through Sport.