Terence Mapuka&#8212;Is it not interesting that coal and diamonds are both made from the same material yet they are so different? When I look at it, it is the same with us people. We all have the same material in us but somehow we are so different. A little illustration will help us understand how this difference comes about. It is all in the pressure we face! A popular story is told about the work of a potter. How he takes clay and makes magnificent artefacts of great value.We are equated to that clay. In this article I would like to equate the potter to something us teens are familiar with, school! So school takes us in our raw nature just like the clay and takes us to his wheel.On his wheel he carefully fashions us to the design which is already in us but we did not know. As we are being designed certain impurities that were attached to us are removed.This where the pressure starts. You see there are certain habits or information or yet again people we thought were part of us but because of the potter, in this article the school, we realise they were just impurities. Only there to disturb our progress, we have to let go.Already the clay is different from when it first came to school. You are getting more and more aware of who you really are. The potter calls it purifying and school calls it self analysis and self awareness. You get to know how best you learn in certain environment, what you like and what you would rather avoid.As you continue with school you are shaped into the best you can be just as the potter shapes the clay. He knows this clay is best for plates and this clay best for cups or pots. School helps you discover the career for you.It is already in you and it needs a system that can help you understand what is best for you. We all have potential but if we stay out of a system that helps us, that potential might never see the light of ray.It goes without saying that school has its pressure. You need to study different subjects, write tests and do it over and over again! It seems like punishment, why did you become part of this system?Just like the potter takes his clay into the fire to make it stronger and have that attractive burnt clay look.That is what school is doing to you, the pressure is to make you stronger and become a skilled person who can be marketable. When the product of the potter is finally presented you marvel and say wow! When the school product finally graduates you are proud and say yeah!At the end of the day, the studying, the homework, the endless assignments and research and the tests including final exam stress will be worth it. When you now look at how different you are from the same guy just like you who did not go to any school, you appreciate all that you went through to be a better person.You will appreciate why the diamond is more valuable than coal though both are from the same material. It is the pressure that the diamond went through that makes it more valuable. Yes it is that pressure that gives you value!Terence is with zwTEENS an organisation which deals with teens and issues affecting them. You can reach zwTEENS on 0774599446, WhatsApp 0772128170, terence@zwteens.com or visit their website www.zwteens.com