Lloyd MutasaPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter&#8212;LLOYD MUTASA remains committed to Dynamos and wishes to see the side doing better next season and challenging for the Castle Lager Premiership title despite the in-house squabbles that have rocked the Glamour Boys of late. A Dynamos faction led by Ernest Kamba and some former players is fighting to seize control of the club from Benard Marriot and his crew, but appears at the moment, to have failed with both the ZIFA and the Premier Soccer League recognising the later as the leader of the club.Kenny Mubaiwa, appointed the club s president by Marriot and his team, is still running the team and is also part of the emergence committee in charge of the PSL.Mutasa s contract is due to expire on December 31, but the seasoned coach is hopeful he will be in charge next season and is already planning for life after this year s misery. I am an employee at Dynamos and all I have to do is to work for the club and I will not comment over the issues which are beyond me, said Mutasa. I can admit that at times I have sleepless nights because I always want things to be stable at the club since I have the love and passion for the team If parents are fighting in a house the children will get affected but the technical team has been urging the players to focus on matters on the pitch. We (the technical department) do not want to get involved in what is happening as regards to the boardroom squabbles. We are focused on our work and I have already planned ahead and set my targets and I have a list of players I want if funds are availed to me. The coach was handed the responsibility to lead Dynamos after the club plunged into 15th place under the guidance of Portuguese coach Jorge Paulo Silva.Dynamos are likely to lose the services of Brett Amidu, Ocean Mushure and Tatenda Mukuruva. Amidu might be on his way to either FC Platinum or CAPS United while goalkeeper Mukuruva s destination is still to be known. We are in a Catch 22 situation. As a coach we do not talk about the administration s budget but you are only forced to do that when you talk about the players you have targeted, said Mutasa. As things stand, I can t dream of bringing a Ronaldo at Dynamos when you don t have money. I can t talk of Walter (Musona) from FC Platinum because we do not have the money. Winston (Mhango) is not attached but it s a tall order to approach him. Godknows (Murwira) has promised me that he will stay if his offers from abroad do not materialise. I also have Masimba (Mambare), Obrey (Mwerahari) and Peace (Makaya) who are very loyal to the club. Dynamos still have Ashley Reynas, King Nasama, Musa Madhiri, Kudzanayi Nyakasaka, Simbarashe Gorogodyo, Carlos Rusere, Tawanda Macheke, Peace Makaha and Wisdom Mutasa.But these are largely considered lightweight for a club of DeMbare s stature.The Glamour Boys won the league title four years on the spin under coach Callisto Pasuwa, but then finished second last year, under Tonderai Ndiraya, with Chicken Inn being crowned the kings.