Tawanda Matanhire Cool lifestyle Reporter &#8212; Schools are closed and pupils are looking forward to the next term in the new year and already have resolutions on how they want to tackle the year ahead. Some pupils did very well during the course of the year and would want to find ways to maintain that while some are fighting hard to improve.There are others who have had problem at home with their parents and feel it is high time they make them happy by doing so good and this can only be done when they, themselves have the will and the drive to change.In as much as pupils would want to get better grades they cannot do so using the same methods which made them fail but rather need to find ways to make a difference.Resolutions are therefore necessary to make changes be it at home or in school. In separate interviews with The Herald Cool Lifestyle several students highlighted that they understood what resolutions were and some had taken a step to improve by listing areas they need to change. I believe resolutions are changes so that one can be better than they were in life, said Monica Chanda a Form 3 pupil from Kuwadzana 2 High School. I have made my resolutions for the year and amongst them, I want to work hard in Maths and Accounts because I flunked them this year, she added. Resolutions are made if you were bad and want to be good, said Pretty Makumbe from Zengeza 1 High School. I want my spiritual life to be better because this whole year I went to church less times and it affected my prayer life so in 2017 I want to be in church more and get closer to God. I believe this will also help me improve even my academics, she said.While most pupils focus on their academics there are others who are into many school disciplines and are willing to make remarkable changes. Resolutions are ways in which we seek to make it better in the future. I love music and would want to be in the school choir when I m in Form 2. I was shy to approach the music teacher but in the coming year I will definitely join because it s in my passion, said Lilian Madyopa a Form 1 student from Harare High School. Last year we did not do well as the soccer A team and I want to motivate my colleagues to train harder so that we will win next year, said Nyasha Murisa from Kambuzuma 1 High School. I would lie to my parents about going to school activities and I realised it was wrong after I was involved in an accident so I want to change that and be a good student and make them proud, said pupil only identified as Nyasha from Allan Wilson High School.