Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion talk 263 &#8212; Before getting down to business it would be myopic if I don t congratulate Style Oracle team for hosting a successful fashion designer workshop at the Royal Sports Club recently. The event saw internationally acclaimed multi award winner designer Rahimma Mahommed exchanging notes and sharing her experience with some of the notable names in the local industry who include Joice Chimanye, Phillip Marufu and Thembani Mubochwa among others.By the way, it is of great importance having such events in this time of fashion as many people are now conscious on what they wear daily. Back to business of the day someone asked me last week what could be the fashion statements for this season yet alone in the future?For a start, a Christmas shopper s complaint is one of long standing. Ho-ho-ho, this is the time to avoid horrible outfits and whatever your traditions at this season, it is always nice to pick a stand out outfit to mark the occasion.Just know that a bit of glitz and glamour is a must and can be incorporated in a number of different ways: if you usually relax around the house on Christmas Day enjoying indoor festivities, then choose a comfortable outfit- for ladies especially perhaps a sparkly top with slouchy jeans and slippers.If you are dining out or visit family, why not go all out of the way. Team glitzy shoes with a smart festive dress or jumpsuit will complete the look.Gents make sure if it is outdoor obvious the Nike Airmax high cut are a must have or if you have a type of Timberland will suit the occasion. Make sure you consider outdoor wear and don t get caught out in the rains.One thing I like about fashion is that whatever your plans, choosing what to wear on Christmas Day should be fun. For the fashion bugs, spend time getting ready for tomorrow and use it as an excuse to steal some quality you time .Just make sure you choose an outfit that will accommodate a few mulled wines and a big lunch. Again remember the season is about parties. Well here is a quick guide if you wondering what to wear to a holiday open house, an afternoon cookie exchange, or just cocktails around the fire even kumusha &#8211; rural areas &#8211; be fashion wise:Stay away from Christmas themed sweaters Yes leave that for grannies. Stay away from costume &#8211; like clothing that makes you look like you raided a senior citizen s closet.To be cool tomorrow don t be too obvious rather re-gift that holiday themed sweater to Goodwill. Instead try a red, gold, silver or black sweater paired with black pants, boots and a fabulous bag. Yes it is sexy, age appropriate and perfect for holiday get togetherTry sweater dress Let me confess on this one, our Herald features editor Roselyn Sachiti is a favourite of this one. A cosy sweater dress with black tights and high flat boots is best and don t forget the three C s if you a fan of this look (casual, classy cosy).This is a great look during holidays and all type of weather.However depending on the length of your sweater dress you may want to wear leggings rather than tights. They are little thicker. Sparkle Like said before, if the invitation says you should be casually dressed but you want to look festive, then all you need to do is add a little glitter into the mixWow them with satin, jewel toned bloused A pretty silky blouse is an easy way to up the glamour during the holidays. Any deep, rich, jewel tone will look festive with black party pants and light up your style this season.You can opt for sparkly, but not tacky Christmas jewellery. A candy cane pin, a Christmas tree charm on a necklace can do also. No matter how cute or sentimental it will, it will still look like it came from the dollar store.Instead try something festive but that doesn t look ancient. For example the crystal choker is trending at the moment and would work well to dress up a casual holiday party outfit.Happy holidays and merry fashionable Christmas