Minister KasukuwereInnocent Ruwende Municipal Reporter Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Saviour Kasukuwere says he rescinded the decision by Harare City Council to sell a Newlands commercial stand to the mayor Councillor Bernard Manyenyeni for $106 000 because the city wanted to sell the stand for a song. Clr Manyenyeni however, claims that the minister hurriedly withdrew privileges for councillors to buy commercial or industrial stands to fix him.The minister said the decision bordered on abuse of office and self-aggrandisementYesterday, director Policy Planning and Programmes Coordination in the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Mr Nathan Nkomo said Minister Kasukuwere had been disturbed by Clr Manyenyeni who thought that he was always out to fix him. The ministerial decision to rescind the council resolution to sell 5 300 square metres Newlands Commercial Stand to him for a song was not personal. All the circulars generated by the ministry are sent to the 32 urban local authorities, not only Harare. They are meant to direct and regulate them. Sometimes in instances, they make decisions which directly benefit the city fathers. In this instance, the spirit of Circular No 12 dated 14 November 2016 is that prime land should not be grabbed under the guise of a misinterpreted Ministry generated circular, he said.Mr Nkomo said the circular in question urged all urban councillors to dispose of such prime land through a public tender system for the benefit of the rate payer.He said there was nothing wrong with Clr Manyenyeni acquiring the stand in a transparent and prudent manner. Again, the spirit of the circular which allowed councillors to acquire commercial or industrial stands is both a privilege and gesture, which is meant to assist councillors not to look at council as their sole source of livelihood but use the acquired land for purposes of coming up with income-generating projects. All councillors with voracious appetite for land should pay the market value. I urge all city fathers to seek verification and proper interpretation on any circulars generated by the Ministry with the accounting officer, he said.He assured councillors that the Ministry would always behave like a facilitator and regulating authority interfacing with responsible civic leaders.Recently, Government withdrew all privileges for councillors to buy commercial and/or industrial stands citing rampant abuse of the facility by some councillors who were allocating themselves several stands, and profiteering in the process.