Tendai Rupapa Senior Reporter &#8212; Reverend Togarepi Chivaviro of the Ebenezer fame on Tuesday hosted a thank you dinner for his fans and took the opportunity to officially launch his latest offering, Maranatha The Lord is coming , which he collaborated with several local artistes. Rev Chivaviro, the leader of Assemblies of Pentecostal Methodist said 2016 was a great year for him following the several nominations and awards he bagged.The latest collaboration features his wife Mother General Chivaviro, Pastor Leonard Zhakata, Pastor Olinda Marowa-Ziwenga, Pastor Josh Kays, Matthias Mhere, Agatha Murudzwa-Ndembera and Munyaradzi Munodawafa.Speaking at the function, Rev Chivaviro said he was overwhelmed by his fan s unwavering support. He entered into the music industry in 1999 and from that period to 2014, he got a few nominations and managed to scoop only one award. However it seems his famous collaboration Ebenezer opened doors for immense recognition. We have been in the music industry since 1999 but we have never received awards like we did this year. I want to thank our fans for the support, he said. We felt God has done a lot for us and we found it prudent to thank those who have been supporting us from day one. The media, fans and all promoters played a pivotal role in elevating us therefore our big thank you goes to these people. Without that kind of support we would not be where we are today. He added that his fans were the ones who persuaded him to work on the collaboration. Our fans persuaded us to do another collaboration, which we expect to be a hit. We initially declined but the pressure mounted and we had no choice but to fulfil our fans wishes. We then came up with Maranatha which I know will be a hit. He said.Rev Chivaviro thanked all the musicians who participated on the songs Ebenezer and Maranatha . In 2015 he had five nominations and received three awards.This year he had 10 nominations and scooped four awards. The recent award is the SABC crown award for best of Africa in which Ebenezer was voted the best.Rev Chivaviro who is the global ambassador for albinism initiative also donated exercise books at the event to primary pupils living with albinism from different schools.His first release was in 1999 called Peace, Hope and Love . In 2000 he released the song Power . In 2006, he released The Best Of (Compilation) before coming back in 2009 with The Return . Ishe Taungana (Hymnal Worship Vol 4) was released in 2013. He then released Ebenezer last year before releasing Mhepo inoperekedza this year.