A scene from the movie Moana Cool Reloaded with Swagga TYipee!!! The holidays have begun. Yes the final term is over, meaning what you have been learning this year is over and next year is about a new level. Well the rains have continued on and off but that doesn t stop the fun. So Brian Viner said the Moana movie which also happens to be my movie of the week is a family-friendly fun.He said there is much to relish in this animated Disney film, and appreciates it as much for what it lacks as for what it contains.The demigod Maui is voiced by Dwayne The Rock Johnson, who may have Samoan roots but couldn t sound more Californian, ditto Moana (though in fairness she is voiced by young Hawaiian actress Auli i Cravalho).The film written and directed by John Musker and Ron Clements, who were behind Aladdin and The Little Mermaid apparently takes its story from Polynesian mythology.Anyway, the brave Moana sails off from her South Sea island, crossing the reef in defiance of her protective father, the chief, in search of the once-mighty Maui.Here is the snippet: Moana is the latest movie by Disney animation studios and tells a classic story of discovery and adventure, this time based on the fascinating Polynesian culture, quite different from the icy setting of Frozen.When Moana (Auli i Cravalho) finds out that monsters are set to destroy her home, she must team up with Maui, to defeat them and bring peace to Hawaii.This movie has beautiful animation the CG is stunning, as it always is with Disney. The water plays a huge part in the story, with Moana having the ability to control it, and the way it moves and splashes looks very realistic and well-done. The characters are also amazing Moana is the daughter of the chief, so she is not technically a princess like Elsa, a fact poked fun at by Maui.Speaking of Maui, he is probably the stand-out character, with his sentient tattoos and magical fish hook that gives him immeasurable power and the ability to shape shift.There is also Tamatoa, a giant crab and Maui s enemy, who illuminates in neon colours, and reminded me of Doctor Facilier from the Princess and the Frog. The songs are also brilliant, with Maui s You re Welcome being one of my favourite Disney songs to date. Dwayne Johnson actually sings it himself and does a great job. Who knew rocks could sing?