1 Samuel 17 vs 45 Then David said to the Philistine You come to me with a sword, with a spear, and with a javelin. But I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. We all have Goliaths in our lives, these big marauding things that stand in our way. Wherever we turn they are there; tall, stoic and ready to pounce on us. They take so many forms, it can be people, circumstances or issues. These giants stand in the way of our progress and often times we do not have the ability nor the courage to confront them and move on to the next stage in our lives. An endless list of things could be standing between you and progress, it could be procrastination, laziness, circumstances, addictions or just plain bad luck.The story of David and Goliath tells us that the Israelites had been pinned down by the Philistines and they had all, but lost the belief that their foe could be overcome. For days on end Goliath had taunted them, and they were helpless to answer back. The battle was lost up until David, a lowly sheep-herder, got up and said I can defeat Goliath. He was offered all sorts of armour, but in the end he settled on just his sling and a pebble. Before long he had felled Goliath, the myth was over and the battle was won. As we face all manner of obstacles we must sometimes remember that the answers we require to some of the complex matters before us are a lot simpler than we make them out to be. God has given us grace that is available to us to overcome the things that are in our way. We sometimes spend endless hours searching and looking for answers yet the solution to our problems lies in us approaching His throne, praying and then waiting for Him to fight the battles on our behalf. He will give us solutions, some so simple that when we think through them we can t help, but laugh at the wisdom of our Maker. Are there issues you have been grappling with that have been holding you back that you just want to overcome, but you have no idea how to go about it? The first step lies in our ability to confront the Goliath in front of us because often times we run away from the issues, hide and pretend they don t exist yet we must accept that there is a problem and it must be confronted.Be blessed.For More Info:Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.orgEmail us on info@thefig-tree.orgCatch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours