LONDON. &#8211; Chelsea s English Premier League game at Manchester City today is a good chance to show they have rediscovered their best form following last season s problems, manager Antonio Conte said yesterday. Chelsea, who finished 10th in May, retained their place at the summit with a seventh successive league victory over Tottenham Hotspur last weekend ahead of the trip to third-placed City today. I think tomorrow (today) it s a really tough game. It is a great test for us, for our formation, to continue this way, Conte told reporters. We know that it won t be easy because tomorrow we face a really great team, with a great idea of football. I think tomorrow is another step to show if something has changed compared to the start of the season. Chelsea have scored 19 goals and conceded just one during their winning run and Conte is unlikely to make changes to his starting line-up at the Etihad Stadium. I m pleased for all the players that are playing. Those on the bench understand. There is the right atmosphere, the Italian added.City s Kevin De Bruyne, who left Chelsea in 2014, has emerged as one of the world s finest attacking midfielders since falling out of favour with then-manager Jose Mourinho. He s a great player. It s a pity now he is playing for another team because he s a fantastic player. I wish for him the best . . . after our game, Conte said.British media reported that Chelsea s Steve Holland is wanted by manager Gareth Southgate as part of England s backroom set-up and Conte said was happy with his assistant s commitment amid speculation. The situation is very clear. Steve is one of my assistant coaches and working very well. He is working for Chelsea for many years. I m very happy for his commitment, attitude and work rate, Conte said. I don t know what happens in the future. This matter is for the FA. But now I am pleased to have him. Meanwhile, Manchester City will aim to prove their hectic schedule won t stop them winning the English Premier League title when leaders Chelsea visit Eastlands for a enthralling showdown today.City are one point behind Chelsea heading into the first meeting this season between two teams who have quickly emerged as leading title contenders under their new managers.While City featuring in a title battle only five months into Pep Guardiola s reign is hardly a surprise given the club s financial muscle and their Spanish manager s impeccable CV, Chelsea s presence at the top of the table is more unexpected.The Blues were in turmoil last season after Jose Mourinho was sacked, but former Italy and Juventus coach Conte has teased out renewed focus and passion from a squad of fragile egos and the results have been impressive.Three points in Manchester would take Chelsea to eight consecutive league victories for the first time since 2010, but City have lost just one of their last 15 league games and have a point to prove about the rivals differing schedules.While third placed City have had the pressure of trying to qualify from a tough Champions League group, Chelsea have enjoyed the luxury of extra rest due to their failure to quality for European competition. We ll have played eight more games &#8211; terrible games &#8211; in the Champions League than Chelsea and Liverpool and we are there, Guardiola said.Fixtures (all 5pm unlessotherwise stated)Today: Manchester City v Chelsea (2:30pm); Crystal Palace v Southampton; Stoke City v Burnley; Sunderland v Leicester City; Tottenham Hotspur v Swansea City; West Bromwich Albion v Watford; West Ham United v Arsenal (7:30pm).Tomorrow: Bournemouth v Liverpool (3:30pm); Everton v Manchester United (6pm).Monday: Middlesbrough v Hull City (10pm). &#8211; Reuters.