Tafadzwa Zimoyo &#8212; It is true that weekends don t count if you spend them doing something completely pointless. I hope I find you well, and it is just a few days before schools close. Yipee, another long holiday is approaching and it s good that it is festive season. So Grade Seven results are out and hey, who rules the roost this year, is it girls or boys. We say congratulations to those who came out tops and the Form One school-search rush has begun.Please make sure you make the right choice and listen to your parents. Still on festive season, yesterday saw the switching on of Christmas lights at Africa Unity Square and Oh Lord, taking a stroll during the night, one would think they are in Madison Square gardens.The switching on of lights also noticed the coming of Santa Claus and hooray, those who were lucky managed to receive free gifts. It is ho-ho-ho-ho everywhere.Here is my quick guide on some of the oriented holiday activities you can do:1. Decorate Christmas cookies2. Make a glitter painted glass ball ornaments.3. Make Christmas beaded safety pin patterns.4. Sell Christmas trees with a youth group.5. Have a Christmas specials and Movie marathon.This will keep you busy and make you stay off bad or dirty deeds. I say get ready for the festive season and it is now a thing of the past crying for new clothes as most times and teens of nowadays are always donning new trends and fashion style.I was surprised last week, when someone asked me about the Puma Fenty sneakers by Rihanna on whether they are unisex or what? Yes, somehow there are unisex but I am not a fan of the colour red on Fenty, I would rather leave that to girls.Well one thing, you need to know is Rihanna is always onto something. Ever since she came on board as creative director for Puma, her designs have resonated with the general public &#8211; it certainly explains why her Fenty creepers sold out almost as soon as they dropped or the media attention she garnered when it came to her first-ever Fenty x Puma runway show at New York Fashion Week.When I got my hands on a pair, I was stunned. What do I wear them with? For ladies, it was somehow easy because RiRi wore a netted slip dress over a black Puma bodycon mini in one and then what appears to be a silver top and shorts with an oversize leather jacket in another in the ad and many are following the trend.For guys, Fenty X seems to be an accessory but they go well with any camouflage outfit. On to the couch potato our movie of the week is on double cross between Fantastic Beasts and Max Steel which is topping at box office.I choose Max Steel because it is a teenage superhero movie which recounts the origin tale of the character based on the Mattel action figure. Even teens may find themselves underwhelmed by the new live-action film based on what &#8211; for many of them &#8211; may be their favourite Mattel action figure.Delivering a bland cinematic origin story which seems calculated to boost Christmas toy sales, Max Steel is a stillborn, would-be franchise starter, sneaked into multiplexes without advance critic screenings.The story revolves around sixteen-year-old Max McGrath (Ben Winchell, perfect for posters on teenage girls walls), who moves to a new town with his widowed mother Molly (Maria Bello).Max s scientist father was killed years earlier in an industrial accident that may or may not have been caused by a tornado. More than once, Max is told by people he meets, including his dad s former colleague (Andy Garcia), that his father was a very special man. It stars Ben Winchell, Josh Brener, Ana Villafane, Andy Garcia, Maria Bello and Billy Slaughter, while directed by Stewart Hendler. Given a chance I will go for this one than Fantastic Beasts which unleashes (Harry Potter) J.K. Rowling s magic on old New York.On parting note, we would like to wish the best of luck to five local schools namely, Prince Edward, Marist Nyanga, Peterhouse College, St Ignatius and St Johns who left the country ahead of National School Quiz Championships (NSQC) SADC Regional to be held in Midrand, South Africa.The tourney which had a colourful opening ceremony saw 32 qualified schools from six countries across SADC registering.