BEIJING. The international community has voiced condemnation of the assassination of the Russian ambassador to Turkey Andrei Karlov, and their determination to fight against terrorism. The incident occurred when the Russian diplomat prepared to address an art exhibition ceremony in the Turkish capital of Ankara on Monday. He was shot dead by a member of Ankara s riot police squad who shouted words including Syrian city Aleppo at the scene.The murder was timed on the eve of the trilateral meeting among the foreign ministers of Russia, Turkey and Iran, who were scheduled to convene in Moscow for talks on Syria. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, who learned about the bloodshed on his way to Moscow, decided to head forward.He praised Karlov for making considerable efforts to develop (Russia-Turkey) ties even at the most difficult of times. Russian President Vladimir Putin pointed out the killing of Karlov was a provocation aimed at derailing Russia-Turkey ties and the peace process in Syria. If that s the case, the shooter s action has proved to be futile, as Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov made clear later that the prime ministerial-level meeting would be held yesterday as planned.Moreover, Russia and Turkey had agreed to join hands in the investigation of the incident. In the wake of the killing, Putin vowed to step up the fight against terrorists. The bandits will feel this happening, he cautioned. The Syrian foreign ministry issued a statement, condemning the event terrorist and cowardly. The statement was made against the backdrop that the Syrian rebels were evacuated from the strategically-located Aleppo last week, under a truce agreement reached between Russia and Turkey.The international community has been quick in pounding the atrocity.United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon was appalled by this senseless act of terror and emphasises that there can be no justification for the targeting of diplomatic personnel and civilians, said a statement from his spokesman on Monday.US Secretary of State John Kerry called the killing an assault on the right of all diplomats to safely and securely advance and represent their nations around the world. US National Security Council Spokesman Ned Price also expressed American government s support for Russia and Turkey in their combat against terrorism in all its manifestations.In a written statement, President-elect Donald Trump denounced the murder a violation of all rules of civilised order and must be universally condemned. In a condolence message to Lavrov, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Tuesday China strongly condemns the barbaric and brutal terrorist attack on the diplomat and firmly opposes terrorism of all forms. China is willing to work with the international community in firmly supporting Russia s efforts and actions to fight terrorism, and strengthen anti-terrorism cooperation, Wang added.France, Egypt, Brazil, Belarus and Greece were on the list of countries expressing condolence for the victimized and condemnation of the killer. In a press release, the Egyptian Foreign Ministry urged all countries of international conventions to provide protection to diplomatic missions, specially amid the ongoing threats of terrorism.Born in 1954 in Moscow, Karlov was a career diplomat who had been serving in Turkey since 2013. The 22-year-old killer, named Mevlut Mert Altintas, was later killed in a shootout with police. Xinhua.