Martin Luther King JrBishop B. Manjoro Dunamis And Peter answered him and said, Lord if it be thou bid me to come unto thee on the water . And he said, Come . And when Peter was come out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus (Matthew 14:28-29). Here we see Jesus, supernaturally walking on water and bidding Peter to come and join him! O hallelujah! God wants you to join Him in being immovable and doing the impossible!Yes you can do the impossible at your school, in that company and in your family &#8211; immovable faith! However, we learn that before doing the impossible, Jesus had spent time in prayer. He didn t pray for two minutes or 10 minutes and said I m done, no. He went up the mountain because he meant business. He prayed and prayed and prayed. At other times the Bible records he spent all nights praying alone. After that he comfortably walked on water.Today I say to you don t pray in panic over the wind and storm rising against you, no! Have immovable faith, which is birthed in prayer! Water is liquid, yes but when you have immovable faith, you do not curl back from situations, no, that situation which is very liquid and impossible to walk on will be made solid, and you conquer it and walk on it.Always remember; when you walk by immovable faith, you don t believe in yourself, your pastor or your church but you believe the word of God.You will be surprised after walking a kilometre, how did I get this far? Friend, the word of God is powerful and will stand not for one day, or two, but forever. What God says will stand forever. If he says I will above everything that you prosper . . . or I am the Lord God your healer . . . then recognise him as such. Sickness is going to be afraid because it understands your doctor. It knows Dr Jesus! Listen to me it s time to move in immovable faith!Another key to immovable faith is hearing the word of God. You need to hear the word of God if you are to become a man/woman of immovable faith! Faith comes by hearing and hearing the word of God (Romans 10:10).We see that Peter could not just jump on water because he felt like it, No. he waited for the word from Jesus. He waited for come! It meant all to him. At one time he said, Lord we have toiled all night and caught nothing, but nevertheless, at thy word, we will launch our nets into the deep .He and his partners got the biggest catch in all their years in business, to the point that their ships began to sink. O hallelujah! I like it, I like it. Long to hear the word of God. Hearing the word is very powerful! Do you have a crippled business and withering project that has run you into more debt and problems than it has brought you profits? Hear the Word!But bishop where do I get that kind of a word like Peter got? Where do I get a word for my marriage, business, children, health or community? Good, you have asked well. That word you are looking for is right there in your Bible.Money, healing, whatever you go through is recorded in the Bible. All you need is to just believe and walk on what he said. You also need to discipline yourself to attend church services and conferences (Hebrews 10:25). In the house of the Lord you are taught the word and your faith grows and become immovable.But at the same time here is another problem; you can t walk in immovable faith if your perception is low, inferior and wrong. You need to see possibilities of God s word with eyes of faith. You need to see yourself becoming who God said you are! See your family united, your marriage flourishing, passing with good grades, excelling in ministry and all things advancing in your life! O hallelujah!You don t go where you have never seen! It all starts by seeing. You see what you want to be before you actually see it. Perception is a key to moving in immovable faith. The Lord said unto Abram, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward. For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed forever (Genesis 13:14-15).Abraham believed God and to date he is a reckoned man of faith, immovable faith! How did he see Syria and all the land God spoke when he was sleeping in a tent in Jericho? How did he see Beersheba, Mt Sinai and all the places God promised him? He saw with eyes of faith &#8211; immovable faith.It s the same seeing that Martin Luther King Jnr had when he said, I have a dream . He had not dream whilst asleep. No. With this kind of seeing you even dream awake. He was seeing it with other eyes yet today it s happening. A real dream has to outlive the dreamer!For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27.