Innocent Choga Fitness&#8212;The questions that I encounter most frequently are on how to lose weight. Most individuals who are obese seem to think that their situation is unique and requires personal solutions, which is correct. I like discussing these issues with everyone involved in fitness activities, especially getting the relevant facts from the real people with weight problems; people who are doing something to tackle this problem. Last week we discussed about body weight discrimination, I think most people discriminate themselves first, because the majority of people that I approach for interviews are quick to point out that I am talking to the wrong person, they try to refer me to individuals they perceive as the real people . Don t you think you should be talking to well-built individuals who know all about it? How do they know about it when they have never been personally affected?Why should we have a negative view of ourselves when we are doing something positive about the situation? In the same sense one should avoid the company of negative people who view your situation as a death sentence, because this may cause a mirror effect that will also negatively affect you. Happy workouts that are characterised by laughter are highly recommended,A situation in which one is obese initially requires one to start with low impact activities. There are many basic guidelines and but I will just mention a few.In my opinion the best way to tackle obesity is to use a two pronged approach; engage in both aerobic activities and weight training. Most people believe only aerobic training is ideal for obese individuals who wish to lose weight. I reiterate that is not true, weight training is also good for weight loss. Do not shy away from weight training, it reduces dietary fat and it has an added advantage of providing muscular endurance to specific muscles and shaping them in the process.Engaging in both activities is ideal, because these activities use different types of energy and different components of fitness and you get the most out of each situation.Aerobic workouts use the oxidative system that engages the cardiovascular system, strengthening the heart and blood vessels. Weight training uses the phosphagen and glygolytic systems (ATP), engaging the strength and muscular endurance components. Both types of training can also involve the power and flexibility components depending on how the exercises are executed.If your diet and eating habits are not good then there is need to be scared of weight training, but even then aerobics training will only condition you without helping you to lose weight.I may appear to be biased towards weight training but I have personally made unbiased observations. I have not been training with weights over the past seven years. This is my first very long break since I started weight training as a teenager in 1980.My exercise sessions consist mainly of running, calisthenics, gardening and regularly participating in other sporting activities. I only trained with weights in February and March this year. It is that absence and those 2 months of weight training that helped me make a valid analysis. I am not aligned to any gym and I do not own a gym. Although I had managed to maintain a bit of muscularity, I shaped up and lost weight on the scale significantly during those two months.In aerobic exercises muscles demand of oxygen are met by the high circulation of oxygen in blood. During anaerobic exercise oxygen demands are so high that they depend upon the internal metabolic process for oxygen, thus weight training enhances metabolism.However, one can also participate in other activities such as karate and dancing as a way of losing weight. One can also walk long distances with music and/or a companion which can also be a dog.Avoid using stair climbing as an exercise until you have become lighter and fitter .I once used to climb 16 stairs at a certain gym in town and I paid the price in knee problems but luckily they healed.Obese individuals who are over 60 years of age should exercise under the guidance of an expert trainer who has biomechanical knowledge. Their cardiovascular system is delicate and the bone structure is not the same as it was. It might have altered; at this stage it is fragile, vulnerable and prone to oestroposis and deformity.Avoid crash programmes to lose weight fast .Research indicates that only 5 percent of individuals who lose weight through crash programs are able to shed the weight permanently, the rest always gain back the weight.Do not skip meals. Skipping meals may result in further accumulation of fat. There is a myth that exercising early in the morning on an empty stomach allows one to use fat reserves. You need energy to exercise, if you do not have energy you compromise on the quality of your workouts and the body will create more fat reserves when you eat as a counter measure in anticipation of future hunger periods .Some individuals are lean because they are always eating.Frequent meals ensure that the metabolism system is always in a high mode. What you need before a workout is a balanced meal that is high in fiber; food that gives you energy and makes you full without over eating, taken within a reasonable time before workouts.Set attainable goals .Go for both field (gym) tests and laboratory tests. Measure some key areas of your body and weigh yourself before you start on any exercise program.Do not change instructors the way soccer teams change coaches. Give the instructors a chance to perfect their skills, unless they are not really good for you .Provide the instructors with regular feedback either on your progress or rating the instructors on both negative and positive aspects. Remember every time you change instructors you are starting anew.Tell as many people as you can about your intentions .By putting yourself on the line you are likely to stick to the programme since the people will be watching you, reminding you and pushing you on.Get enough sleep. Lack of adequate sleep in obese individuals has been said to trigger diabetes. After all exercise helps to cure insomnia, it helps us sleep well. Weight loss for the obese requires patience, commitment and hard work, it requires total behavioural change.Innocent Choga is a six time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport. Email:innocentfchoga@gmail.com