Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis&#8212;Merry Christmas to you and your families! World over this is a time when people celebrate in various ways. It is also the time when people visit each other. Its either you will have visitors at home or you will be visiting an uncle or someone you value. Upon reflecting on these things and these activities I realised Christmas is a time of visitation, not only in human society but also God s visitation.For God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son; John 3:16. Let God visit your life this Christmas! O hallelujah! And the Lord appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day; 2 And he lift up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground, 3 And said, My Lord, if now I have found favour in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 4 Let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree: 5 And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said. 6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes upon the hearth. 7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good, and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it. 8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat. 9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. 10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him. 11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. 12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? 13 And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old? 14 Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. Genesis 18:1-14The above is an interesting story when God visited Abraham and his family.Three men appeared, they were like any men but Abraham sensed something.This season don t miss the time of your visitation! When God visits you your life will never be the same again! The impossible will become possible, the barren will conceive!You see during Christmas people don t just visit each other, No, gifts are given and presents.God will not visit you empty-handed as well. What is it you are desperate for and desiring? Is anything too hard for the Lord? Just lift up your faith and say my God is able! O hallelujah! Your year will not end in pain, tears, suffering and mourning, No! It will end in joy, excitement, healing and divine visitation!Realise that God loved you and gave you Jesus. No-matter where you are now or what you are going through.You could be in prison now, in hospital, on Internet, travelling or in the midst of nowhere, wondering what life holds for you, be of good courage, this is a good time! Celebrate with what you have and bless God for keeping you through-out this year. Keep faith, hope and love! You will make it. You are where you are on your way to where you are supposed to be, O Hallelujah!Let heaven visit you this Christmas! And remember to give Him a gift of making Him The Lord of your life and your Personal Saviour!In closing imagine you are at home in broad day light and you hear the sirens of the President s motorcade afar off.As each minute and each second passes by the sound draws closer and closer to your home. People in your community and neighbourhood are wondering where the President could be going in this location?Who exactly could he be visiting? Whist you are about to ask yourself true who could he be here for the motorcade parks right at your gate and the President gets out and walks toward your door!Get my point even if the President comes to you and asks for directions or say sorry we are lost its wrong number, gets back in his car and goes off, your life will never be the same again.The whole community will say this person is something else don t play with him, the President came to his house.You will be respected and held with esteem.On the other side of the coin, imagine if now it is God who visits you this Christmas? You will never be the same again. Let heaven visit you.Merry Christmas! For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27