Tafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter The inaugural Zimbabwe Model Workshop that was held during the weekend at the Zimbabwe-Germany Society in Harare was a success with huge turnout recorded.The show, which was hosted by Oliver Keith and Lilian Madyara, saw reputable former beauty queens, photographers, media, designers, fashionistas, pageant directors and models in attendance. The workshop served a purpose of enlightening the models on what should be done, where they are lacking and how serious they should be when it comes to the industry.Former Miss World Zimbabwe Emily Kachote touched on branding, Tare Munzara spoke about beauty pageants, Patience Lusego focused on grooming and etiquette while Shamiso Ruzvidzo spoke on runway modelling among others.Former Miss Malaika and plus size model for Edgars, Brita Masalethulini shared her journey and experience as a model. She urged models to be professional and avoid being used. Modelling is a career and if you take it seriously it will sustain livelihood. I started this journey at the age of 18 and I haven t stopped following my passion and dream, even my kids know that. You need to be professional and be signed under an agency to try and make it. Stay away from dirty works. I want to thank the organisers for a job well done in making the industry. As you can see for the past 10 years nothing bigger has been happening apart from pageantry. Models should take this seriously and this should also spread across other major cities and towns. Zimbabwe is talented and we should continue promoting and exposing such untamed talent, she said.ZMW founder and model Tinotenda Mjoni affectionately known as Valentino said the sky is the limit as they have opened doors to the development of modelling. I am happy that everything went on well according to plan although we were affected by time. We have learnt a lot from the captains in the industry and it was an eye-opener to meet them, sharing our dream and vision. My future plan is to make this event reachable in all provinces in Zimbabwe, at the same time scouting for models. I want to bring back the importance of a model, he said. Now we have achieved the first step. If you check well, other countries are supporting, appreciating and making the modelling industry work well in the development of their communities. If Mozambique, Tanzania, South Africa can host such platforms, why can t we? I am setting up a committee with five people that will be announced soon. They will work towards the development of the industry. 