Arthur Marara Motivation How would your life be different if . . . You stopped validating your victim mentality? Let today be the day . . . You shake off yourself defeating drama and embrace your innate ability to recover and achieve. (Steve Maraboli). Steve Maraboli aptly pointed what is haunting most of us today; victim mentality. There are certain people who always think that they are victims; they can t stand up for themselves. Great potential has perished in the hands of people who think they are inadequate to execute the potential in them. They are simply victims!A victim mentality entails a belief that there is something or someone behind what happens in their lives.This mindset also involves the belief that the future is bleak, and holds bad things for one.Believe it or not, there are people who think along these lines and their lives today are consistent with this thought. Some people think they are victims of their past, their marriages, relationships, educational system or even the economy.A victim mentality can be a product of upbringing, you might have come from a broken family, or with an absentee parent, or you might have been nurtured to believe that you are a victim of circumstances.Some people nurture the victim mentality on their own, and they even convince themselves that they cannot control anything in their lives.The victim mentality attracts sympathy from people, it allows you to feel that you are just on the receiving end, and you cannot do anything in life. The truth however is that this mindset does not take you anywhere. It paralyses you!Great people eliminate the victim mentality in their lives, and they take charge of their lives.Life is unfairLife is and will never be fair, but you have to claim what belongs to you. Figure this out; someone is struggling to secure just a single room to live in, some people are busy acquiring vast pieces of land, and building mansions, some people are waiting in a queue to get public transport, some people are impatiently waiting for the arrival of new cars they have acquired.You can have an MBA degree and work for people who do not even have a single degree, you might be very academically gifted and yet struggle to get a job.Those who work long hours should make more money from the look of things, but that is not always the case. That is life!If you do not take time to move yourself from the bracket you are in, you will continue and even die in it.You can complain about how unfair life is, or you can take time to work on improving yourself.The pity song you always recite will not move you an inch to where you ought to be, but decisions will take you there.Money is not just going to find itself into your pocket or into your business; you have to work for it.That job opportunity you always want is not going to come knocking on your door without you doing anything. Take action, take steps to promote yourself. You can either be a victim of the world or an adventurer in search of treasure. It all depends on how you view your life. (Paulo Coelho)Stop being a cry baby As long as you think that the cause of your problem is out there - as long as you think that anyone or anything is responsible for your suffering &#8211; the situation is hopeless. It means that you are forever in the role of victim that you re suffering in paradise. A lot of people are cry-babies.They cry and complain about everything, about how unfair life is, about how weak they are. Mumbling and rumbling has never changed anything in life. If you want your life to amount to something, you need to stop being a cry baby.You need to take a conscious decision to work on your life, and stop blaming other people for what is happening in your life. Some people even hold on to dead people as being the reason why they could not do much in life.You can retain the victim mentality, and you will surely be buried with it.A beneficial exercise can be embarked upon, by claiming what is yours in life. History records of people who started off with nothing and ended up being billionaires, some people coming from broken families rising to become great parents, and partners.Life is unfair if you concentrate on its unfairness. Life rewards those who know what they want, and are prepared to go for it. Let go of people, and start moving. Arthur Marara is an Attorney, Author and Motivational Speaker. He is also the author of Personal Development Toolkit , Keys to Effective Time Management , and Keys to Financial Freedom . Send your feedback to [email&#160;protected] or connect with him on Whatsapp on +263 772 467 255.