Lawrence ChitumbaChristians across all denominations still have a chance to hear live and direct messages from internationally acclaimed pastors, Tom Mullins from the United States of America and Cyril Phiri from Zambia today and tomorrow. The duo is in the country for the Celebration Church annual Action Conference ending tomorrow (Sunday) at Celebration Centre in Borrowdale. Tom Mullins is the founding pastor of Christ Fellowship church, a multi-site church of 25,000 people meeting on seven campuses around South Florida and online around the world.Tom is currently serving as President of EQUIP, to guide national and international leaders in creating a transformation movement within their own nation. He continues to travel and speak nationally and internationally on their behalf, diligently working to raise Christian leaders around the world.He has written four books including, The Leadership Game, The Confidence Factor, the Everyday devotional through the New Testament, and Passing the Leadership Baton. He is passionate about using his influence to be a life coach and an encouragement to others.Tom resides in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida with his wife of 50 years, Donna, and their family; daughter, Noelle, son, Todd and his wife Julie, and grandson, Jefferson.Pastor Cyril Phiri has been in ministry for over 30 years. He and his wife, Nawa Phiri, are the founders and co-pastors of Restoration Ministries International in Lusaka Zambia.Cyril has been consistent in preaching the unadulterated word of God throughout Zambia and beyond. Cyril is an author of a book entitled Progression into God s Purposes and Nawa has also authored books titled Kingdom Standards for Boys and Girls and God s Architecture for Marriage . This unbeatable team has laboured selflessly in the Lord s vineyard.Cyril also serves as Regional Coordinator for Congress WBN a unique, faith-based organization effecting human, social and national transformation throughout the earth. He has the responsibility of managing the operations of the Congress WBN in Southern Africa, which comprises the nations of Zambia, Malawi, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia.Cyril has been consistent in preaching the unadulterated word of God throughout Zambia and beyond. He also stands out as a major icon of spiritual fatherhood, longevity and integrity.Prior to the beginning of the conference hosts pastor Tom and Bonnie Deuschle said the visit by the pastors would add spiritual depth and flavor to the annual event which is open to all. The presence of the guest pastors is going to add spiritual depth and flavour to the conference s fever which is already high. We are definitely going to have spiritually enriching conference and everyone is invited, they said.The Super Sunday tomorrow will wrap up events of the conference which is expected to be spiritually fulfilling at a time when everyone will be looking for devine intervention in the face of economic problems bedevilling the nation.