Mr MasukuHerald Reporter National Economic Consultative Forum spokesperson and former chairman of the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce and Zimbabwe International Trade Fair Mr Nhlanhla Masuku (61) has died. According to his wife Mrs Carol Masuku, he died at AMI Hospital on Tuesday due to complications from diabetes. He was a loving father and husband. He was a great and loving friend. A man who loved his nation and who would do anything in his power to ensure Zimbabwe was empowered, she said.He will be buried at his rural home in Ntabazinduna tomorrow.He is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters.At the time of his death he was organising an investment conference for Zimbabwe in London alongside his friend Mr Brian Pearson, the President s Office and Ministry of Economic Development.Deputy Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Colonel Christian Katsande (Retired) paid tribute to Mr Masuku as a man who worked tirelessly for his country. We worked with Nhlanhla for a long time. President Mugabe said we should bring Government and the private sector together within the smart partnership framework via NECF. Masuku headed the media, information and publicity committee of the NECF and was also chairman of ZITF. Briefings to President Mugabe on NECF were also done by him. He also led the NECF interactive guide to brand Zimbabwe locally and internationally. The Tripartite Negotiating Forum was a legacy of foundation established by Nhlanhla, he said in a speech during Mr Masuku s funeral service at Nyaradzo Funeral Home yesterday.Mr Masuku was born in Bulawayo on March 25, 1955 and brought up in Gweru.He was awarded a scholarship to go to Goromonzi High School for having one of the top two standard 6 results in the country.He was then asked to leave following what was construed as political unrest which resulted in him having to trek through the savannah scrub with his two friends one of which was Paymore Mangwende to Francistown, Botswana and entered into a refugee camp.Apart from chairing ZNCC and ZITF, he was a past vice president of the Sadc Chamber of Commerce and Industry, former vice chairman of the Industrial Development Corporation and former director of IDC subsidiaries such as Sunway City, Almin Metal Industries, IDC Agrotech, National Furniture Industries and Modzone.Mourners are gathered at 2 Cynthia Road, Mt Pleasant in Harare.