Munyaradzi KerekeTendai Rupapa Senior Court Reporter BROTHER to zanu-pf Bikita West MP Munyaradzi Kereke yesterday exonerated the politician from allegations of raping a 13-year-old relative in 2010 and indecently assaulting her sister, claiming that he was with the legislator on the day he is said to have committed the offences.Claitos Kereke told the court that he spent the entire night with Kereke at one of his houses in Mandara.According to the State, the alleged abuse took place at Kereke s other house in Vainona. Testifying as a defence witness in the ongoing trial, Claitos said he was sure that Kereke did not commit the offences.This was after he was cross-examined by private prosecutor Mr Charles Warara on why he was 100 percent sure that Kereke did not go out on the day. How could he have gone out when I am the one who locked the doors and took the keys to my room? He went to bed early and left me smoking outside, he said. He told me not to misplace the keys since his car keys were also on that bunch of keys. There is no way he could have gone out. Mr Warara accused Claitos of lying. Witness you are lying to the court and your testimony is tailor-made to suit accused person s defence. Are you saying his house does not have spare keys or even for his car? Do you think he does not have a spare key? Stop lying under oath. Claitos said one of Kereke s wives had gone to Chinhoyi with the spare keys. How did you know about that information of the spare keys having been taken to Chinhoyi? Mr Warara asked. I asked him if he had spare keys to the house. The house has many doors, but all the other ones were locked except for the one we used which was facing the guard s room, he replied.Claitos later stated that he was not sure if there were other spare keys. I put it to you that there was a meeting to build up Kereke s defence. At first you told this court that you actually slept with Kereke in one bedroom and later shifted that he was in the main bedroom, while you occupied the spare bedroom, he said. You are also saying things which are not in your statement to the police. You actually plotted how you were going to defend him and you crammed your defence. Witness stop making a story. Mr Warara expressed concern over the manner the police recorded witnesses statements.The trial continues today with Kereke s security guard testifying.