Tafadzwa Zimoyo : Fashion Talk 263As days get shorter and the temperatures drop, it s not uncommon for the winter blues to set in. All you want to do is stay in, curl into a ball, and eat. And obvious since temperatures have dropped to pretty unbearable levels in most parts of the country many of us have sacrificed artistry in our dressing in favour of dealing with the weather. But who said you cannot look good and be warm at the same time?Who said you cannot look good and be warm at the same time?Dress for the weather, that is an important element of dealing with cold winter weather.But we all have to think a bit more creatively when getting dressed in the morning.Here is a quick guide on the winter-wear.Dress in layers.This one means you have to use many thin, warm layers rather than a few thick layers.Dress up in long underwear. You can go for the traditional white long johns and corresponding long sleeved cotton tops which have been around for ever. Or you can go for the various colours and patterns that abound to suit your mood. Just make sure that your underwear does not show through your outer garments, that is so tacky.Feet and headWhen it comes to shoes, obviously boots are a must especially for her. You can buy or find a pair of insulated boots.Ideally, the lining should be wool or synthetic and not cotton.You also need to wear winter socks. Warm winter socks are important in keeping warm dry feet. Wool is best, although good synthetic fleece socks are often quite good. You can layer socks, but be careful that your feet are comfortable and the circulation isn t shut down.While some say it is a myth that most body heat escapes through the head, covering any exposed body part helps retain body heat, you have to wear the hat-woollen or the granny hood .Wear gloves or mittens.Fingers and hands are very vulnerable to the cold, so keep them covered.Dress for the weatherVery thin gloves (like magic gloves ) are better than nothing, but comfortable, warm gloves are important.In the late 90s there were the hand warmers and leg warmers that made a hit especially with the Spice Girls. No, they have not made a return so keep them in the suitcase of golden memories and do not inflict them on the long suffering masses.Leopard is the new denimAnimal print, more precisely leopard print is in and like all returning trends it has been upgraded to classy from its earlier humble roots. There was a time back when leopard print was now monotonous as everyone was donning it. That time has returned and it is no longer a pattern but a neutral colour that replaces denim. Look at Cookie Lyon in the famous Empire series how the leopard trend is flocking.And if you have the right touch you can even double up the print for added drama. But be warned, this a hard look to carry off and do not attempt it unless you really are an expert and going against all the rules and still rocking it.Fake fur and sequinsOnce upon a time fake fur was for the poor and sequins were for chorus girls. Then everyone was wearing them. This winter you can get away with fake fur, if you are sure that you will be the only one wearing it. You can wear a sequinned top to brighten up gloomy days and bring a little sunshine into the lives of all those who see you. But do not over do it.Black trousers for herAll ladies who tick the classy and chic boxes on their fashion template form know that this is an old classic and something that a girl always needs in her wardrobe. But now it is runway hottie. Imagine your basic which can be charcoal if you really do not do black-becoming the must have item of the season.Stay safe and fashionably hot this winter.