Snr Asst Comm CharambaFreeman Razemba Crime Reporter Police have warned members of the public to desist from keeping large amounts of money at their homes as they risk being robbed by criminals that are targeting cash movers. In one of the latest incidents, a person was shot and killed by two armed robbers who raided a house in Gwanda and got way with $1 500 in cash.In a statement yesterday, chief police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said this following three recent cases in Harare and Gwanda where several people were robbed of more than $8 000 in property and cash. On May 19, 2016 at around 0100hours, four male adults entered a beer hall in Glen Norah A, Harare using an unlocked kitchen door and found a security guard resting. The quartet assaulted the guard, ransacked the bar and stole 95 crates of assorted beer valued at $4 390 and disappeared, she said.She said on May 21, two men were robbed of an undisclosed amount of cash and two cellphones worth over $1 000 while they were walking along Simon Mazorodze Road. On the same day at around 1930hours in Gwanda, two male adults went to a house in the area and demanded cash and gold from the four occupants. The accused persons produced a pistol and forcibly took $1 500 from them. As the robbers were leaving, the victims gave chase and the armed robbers shot one of them in the stomach. The victim died on admission at Gwanda General Hospital, Snr Asst Comm Charamba said.She urged the public to set up adequate security measures at their business premises. The public is discouraged from keeping large sums of money at home. In cases of robbery, people must not confront armed robbers as they risk being attacked. Police are appealing for information which may lead to the arrest of the culprits. Anyone with information can report to their nearest police station or contact National Complaints desk on telephone number (04) 703631, Snr Asst Comm Charamba said.Two people were seriously injured after they were shot by unknown armed robbers in separate incidents in Harare last Wednesday night.Police have since urged people to be wary of a group of criminals recently released from prison.A foreign currency dealer lost two cellphones and $2 000 to three armed robbers who included a woman, after they lured him into believing that they intended to change South African rands into United States dollars.