Sharon Ngomani : Lifestyle CorrespondentDriven by sonic efficacy; that desire to fulfil a missing sound in his head during performance, Dr Perminus Matiure created a set of three karimba hybrids. These hybrids are a further development of nyunga nyunga mbira where some keys were added and or their positions changed. Dr Matiure is the founder of Zvirimudeze, a five-member mbira ensemble based in Gweru, Midlands capital. The technical terms of his development may only make sense to music scholars, but even the untutored ear will welcome the aural result: I have a set of three karimba hybrids namely karimbashauro/nheketo, duriro and nhovapasi. They are a modification of nyunganyunga/karimba founded at Kwanongoma, explained the Midlands State University lecturer.Nyunga-nyunga is a 15-keyed mbira usually used for secular ceremonies. It is an all in one instrument with lead keys on top, rhythm keys from far ends and bass at the centre. What Dr Matiure has done is to create three mbira from this nyunga nyunga mbira. Lead keys now form a 19 Mbira called karimbashauro/nheketo, rhythm keys now form 17 keyed duriro and bass keys have resulted in 14 keyed nhovapasi Mbira.The three mbiras are in such a way that each one has keys belonging to its own register: low, middle and top registers. This innovation is applaudable as one can play pieces borrowed from Mbira dzaVadzimu which is not possible on nyunga nyunga. The mbiras are free from scepticism hence can accommodate everyone regardless of spiritual inclination. Also, the mbiras produce combinations with a contemporary flavour hence suitable for all audiences, Dr Matiure said.Dr Perminus Matiure and Elijah Chikomo (in hat) performing at the Volt last month during Bira reMutsokotoThe nheketo or lead mbira has small sized keys that are tightened to achieve high pitched notes. The rhythm or duriro can easily be related to the usual sound of nyunga nyunga though with more keys. The bass has longer and bigger keys and its sound can be likened to that of 22-keyed Mbira Dzevadzimu or Nhare.All the hybrids are electrified and produce a refined sound as they have utilized the picker used on guitars.After such an innovation, Dr Matiure saw the need for a band where they could fully explore the fruits of this creation. As a result, Zvirimudeze was formed. All the band members are lecturers in the music department at Midlands State University. We are driven by the need to preserve mbira through performance and we need to push mbira to greater heights. My dream was always to secure these instruments in the music industry. Most of the mbira ensembles in Zimbabwe comprise of Nhare Mbira. Examples include Mbira dzeNharira, Mawungira eNharira, Dzimbahwe etc Now we have Zvirimudeze; an ensemble of hybrid nyunga nyunga .Dr Perminus Matiure Mhofu plays nhovapasi using the cheminhikwi technique, a trick drawn from his father s drum playing skills. Taona Mutengo plays karimbashauro/nheketo while Wonder Maguraushe plays duriro mbira. Decent Chambwera plays drums and Elijah Chikomo is the lead vocalist and gourd rattle (hosho) shaker to cement the traditional sound.The ensemble has released their first album recently with the title Zvirimudeze (What is contained in the calabash) recorded at Monolio Studios in Harare. The album has interesting lyrics, bold vocals and diversified rhythms, darting from rhumba feel to pure traditional sound. The messages are social commentary from infidelity issues to traditional celebratory messages as well as outcries to the Supreme Being for relief to today s problems.Zvirimudeze groupThe band has played in Harare, Hwedza, Gweru, Beitbridge, Durban etc and the hybrid mbiras have been widely accepted by fans. The ensemble has been invited to perform at the esteemed SADC Artists Dim-Dep World Environment Celebration 2016 in May to be held in South Africa.However, question is: Does the hybridization system compromise the original resultant sound as well as social effectiveness? In his response Dr Matiure explained that nyunga nyunga Mbira is a contemporary social instrument since its inception and hence nothing much is compromised.Other artists are impressed by such an achievement. Well travelled mbira player Jacob Mafuleni said Dr Matiure had done a brilliant thing. This is an impressive development because the nyunga nyunga mbira sound can now be diversified as well to embrace younger generations. It makes it more relevant in the 21st Century. Veteran dongonda mbira player Tendayi Gahamadze of famed Mbira dzeNharira crew also had praises for Dr Matiure on this development. Mbira instrument can be likened to a virgin because we haven t explored it to even 50 percent of its ability. Such a development is progressive because it s a step towards discovering our ability and the capability of the instrument. The mbira is an African music instrument which is native to many peoples on the continent and has many variations across the countries where it can be found. In Zimbabwe it has its roots is deep spiritualism and was at one time banned during the colonial period. Many popular musicians including Mbuya Stella Chiweshe, Jah Prayzah and Hope Masike have made it accessible across generations and ethnic boundaries.[email&#160;protected]