FUN IN THE SUN . . . Norman Mapeza is enjoying a purple patch at FC Platinum which he capped by winning the Coach of the Month award for August yesterdaySports Reporter Ngezi Platinum . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 FC Platinum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza says people should not expect his team to play beautiful football all the time after his charges fought hard for victory against Ngezi Platinum at Baobab yesterday. A 10-man FC Platinum shot back to the top of the table after a gritty win that showed their other side. Walter Musona scored the all-important goal in the fourth minute, taking advantage of poor marking by the hosts defenders to thrust his team into an early lead.FC Platinum were reduced to 10 players in the 75th minute when midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku was sent off by referee Norman Matemera for crudely tackling Ngezi midfielder Terrence Dzvukamanja. It wasn t an easy game to be honest. But it is not like every day you play beautiful football to get a positive result. We got maximum points and that is the most important thing, said Mapeza. We managed to score an early goal and that helped us today (yesterday). And a 1pm kick-off sort of affected us as the body and mind are used to 3pm kick-off and they managed to adjust later and we could have added another goal from Marshy s (chance and two other chances from Walter. It brings confidence to the players. It is going to be a long marathon, so we have to collect points whenever we can, take each game as it comes and keep our feet on the ground. Ngezi coach Clifton Somalia Kadurira said they were unfortunate to concede an early goal. It was unfortunate that we conceded an early goal, came back and controlled the game. It is an area which still needs to be worked on for us to be vigilant throughout the entire match. The players are, however, responding well and progressing well but we need to convert chances. We created a lot of chances but couldn t score, said Kadurira.Ngezi s introduction of former Mushowani striker Evans Katema and midfielder Donald Teguru brought a sense of urgency in their play.Teams Ngezi Platinum: B. Mandimutsira, K. Machona, T. Petros, L. Chakoroma, J. Marufu, J. Ngulube (D. Teguru 59th minute) J. Takunda, K. Murera, T. Mabvura (Z. Mhanda 78th minute), T. Dzvukamanja, W. Pakamisa (E. Katema 46th minute).FC Platinum: P. Mhari, K. Moyo, E. Moyo, G. Bello, I. Nekati, W. Mhango, , H. Bakacheza (M. Mudehwe 56th minute) W. Musona, T. Dzumbunu (G. Takwara 74th minute), N. Masuku, O. Chirwa (T. Rukanda 41st minute).