Erol AkbayEddie Chikamhi Sports Reporter DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa doesn t want to be remembered as the first Glamour Boys coach to lose to Highlanders in a league match in over a decade and has challenged his players to raise their game to another level at Rufaro tomorrow. The Battle of Zimbabwe is on this afternoon at 3pm.Mutasa yesterday said the Glamour Boys should not bank on history as they hope to extend their unbeaten run in the Battle of Zimbabwe which stretches to a decade.Bosso coach Erol Akbay indicated that his charges will be out to restore the club s pride.The match comes at a time when the Bulawayo giants are enjoying a good run under the Dutch coach.Dynamos last lost a league match to Highlanders in 2006, the year that Bosso went on to win their last league championship under the guidance of Methembe Ndlovu.Last year, DeMbare beat Highlanders 3-2 at Rufaro and then forced a 1-1 draw in the return leg at Barbourfields.However, Mutasa yesterday acknowledged the enormity of the task on his hands and challenged his charges to rise to their best. All days are not the same. History sometimes fails to repeat itself, but all the same when you have such a rich history on your side you would obviously want to maintain the records, said Mutasa. That is what we are aiming for and we will obviously need to work hard for it. It would hurt to be known as the first Dynamos side to lose to Highlanders after such a lengthy period. The boys know what it means to play against a Highlanders side that is on a roll. It s never an easy game. Good preparation and focus are key. So the boys have been training hard. Even the younger players are pushing for recognition. It s not a secret Highlanders are a big team and they have been enjoying good form. So we are psyching up ourselves for a tough encounter. Dynamos 1-0 win over Tsholotsho, which was their second in seven outings, should bring confidence in the team.Mutasa s biggest headache, however, remains the team s poor conversion rate.DeMbare have been disappointing in front of goal and they have only three strikes to show for all their industry in over 630 minutes of Premiership action.Fullback Ocean Mushure was the hero last week when he converted from the spot against Tsholotsho.Highlanders have scored 13 times, thanks largely to their in-form forwards Knox Mutizwa and Young Warriors man Prince Dube.Dynamos are still to get full value from their strikers Rodreck Mutuma, Farai Mupasiri, Kelvin Bulaji, Kudzanayi Nyakasaka, Richard Kawondera and newboy Evans Gwekwerere who is still battling for fitness.Mutuma, who missed last week s trip to Bulawayo with an ankle injury, has since returned to training and was yesterday expected to be certified fit for the game.Mutasa will have all his arsenal at his disposal with the likes of Stephen Alimenda, Brett Amidu, Masimba Mambare, Dominic Mukandi, Sydney Linyama, Godknows Murwira and Mushure ready for the showdown. I am happy with the situation in our camp. The environment is conducive and everyone wants to play a part. I think we are ready for the game. We have done everything that we were supposed to do in terms of preparation and we are definitely going to give it our best shot. The supporters are one of our most valuable assets. We need them the most especially for games like these. They just must have a sense of belief in the team, said Mutasa.Highlanders last match was a draw against Harare City at Barbourfields.Their coach, Akbay, said they were preparing for the match with an open mind.They are set to welcome youthful forward Prince Dube who was with the Young Warriors last week for a CAF Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Cameroon and Bruce Kangwa who returns from injury.He also has players like King Nadolo, Rahman Kutsanzira, Ralph Matema, Erick Mudzingwa, Simon Munawa, skipper Felix Chindungwe and goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda who have helped spice up the meetings between the giants over the years. I think everybody in our team is ready for this game. The message is to play and win. We want it badly and Dynamos wants it as well. So I believe it s going to be a nice game of football. Hopefully both teams will come to the party and do well for the fans to enjoy quality football. For me every game is important, but I am sure this is one big game for our fans and the players. So as a coach I have to value that and try to make sure that we make everyone happy, said Akbay.