Lloyd ChitembweEddie Chikamhi Sports Reporter THE CAPS United board of directors have hailed coach Lloyd Chitembwe after he led his troops to an important win over rivals Dynamos which ended a seven-year winless spell in the Harare Derby. Board chairman Lewis Uriri believes the former Cup Kings, like the mythological phoenix, will resurrect from their ashes and reclaim dominance on the domestic football scene following a good start this year. Well done coach, and the whole of the team. Thank you. I cannot be with you in the dressing room as the boys celebrate. Pass my profound gratitude to the rest of your team and the boys. This victory marks the beginning of our ascendancy to the top, not just on the domestic scene but regionally. On that day in December 2016, when we are crowned the Champions of Zimbabwe , have completed a league and cup treble, I shall look back to this day as the turning point in the fortunes of the Green Machine. Each game is a battle. The war will be won in December when we reach the Promised Land. But it is a single battle that changes the course of history. The Battle of Waterloo changed the course of history and ended the era of Napoleonic dominance. The liberation of France on D-Day 1944 led to the eventual subjugation of the Nazi regime. Whilst there are many battles still to fight, today s battle was key. It was the battle that has the potential to change the course of our campaign. To make or destroy our dream. It is for this reason that my board and I attended your pre-match briefing. That s is how seriously we viewed the task on your shoulders together with your technical team, said Uriri.CAPS United will face winless newboys Border Strikers in their next assignment, with high hopes of taking their game to a higher level. Last week, Makepekepe showed class when they had to come from behind to beat talent-laden Harare City in another exciting Harare Derby. We now shift our focus to the next game. We have to continue working hard until we reach the Promised Land. We will not expect anyone to win games for us. We will win them ourselves. We will move as one unit, fuelled by the desire to succeed and unity of purpose. You are assured coach (Chitembwe), of our unwavering support on this course of the change of the local football landscape. We are fully behind you. The fans are behind you. Together we will reach the Promised Land. After all, we are CAPS United. United we will achieve the desires of our hearts, even as we delight in the Almighty God. May the LORD God Almighty continue to guide you and be the source of your preservation and wisdom, said Uriri.