Some of the women who were released from Chikurubi Maximum Security PrisonSamantha Chigogo Features Correspondent Prison is not the place any person would choose to be. In fact, when one is sentenced to prison they would probably view it as the end of life, literally. With reports of the deplorable conditions in the overcrowded Zimbabwean prisons one would not expect to lead any sort of meaningful life there.Imagine what goes on in the mind of a pregnant woman who finds herself on the wrong side of the walls at Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison in Harare.Considering all the crude revelations about the conditions inside Zimbabwean prisons, any pregnant woman going in to serve her time would be terrified as to what life she and her child might live.Revelations by some of the female inmates at Chikurubi prison who were recently released in a Presidential amnesty give a glimpse of the reality of life in prison for pregnant women.To some life was better behind bars.A heavily pregnant 29-year-old Jessica Mbaimbai testified to the improvement of the prison system in dealing with pregnant and nursing mothers. Two weeks ago, I was convicted to two years imprisonment for theft. My life was shattered. I was afraid and I thought with my pregnancy neither I nor my baby would survive. However, my perception changed the very first day I walked into these cells. I was shocked by how well I was treated as a pregnant woman, she said.According to Mbaimbai while enjoying her freedom outside the cells she had failed to register her pregnancy with the clinic. When I got here I was eight months pregnant and up until then I had not registered my pregnancy. The matrons here immediately took me to Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals where I was scanned for free and was registered in the book of expecting mothers. The prison started preparing for the arrival of the baby just within the week I got into jail as I was almost due. There is nothing glamorous about prison, but one thing I can positively testify to is the good treatment I received during my pregnancy and up until my delivery, she said.Another female inmate, 21-year-old Memory Mukuvisi who was convicted to 10 years in prison for murder said the one year two months she had served were made bearable by the fact that she was pregnant and had a baby. When I got into jail I was one month pregnant and amongst fears of being convicted I was covered with uncertainties over the life that I was going to lead in jail as a pregnant woman. I thought I was in the worst situation only to later realise that this pregnancy was my saviour during my stay in jail, she said. The matrons are very particular when it comes to expecting mothers, when they realised I was pregnant, the first thing they did was register me at Parirenyatwa and regularly take me for scan for free. Trust me had I been out there, I would only source out money for delivery not all these scans. Money is scarce especially for an uneducated villager like me, she said.Mukuvisi was despondent about the life that her child would live in prison as she had no means of providing for him.What stressed her the most is that her family back home was not supportive at all. I thought my child s life would be bleak because I knew I could not provide clothing or food for him. In prison, however, I was given all the necessary items before my child was born. He is still actually wearing clothes I got from the prison, she said.Mukuvisi said before her arrest, life was tough. That is one of the reasons I tried to kill myself. This is why I also poisoned and drowned my 10-month old son leading to my arrest for murder, she said.Her troubles did not end there. My relatives forgot all about me the day I was convicted for the murder of my child. I was an outcast within my own family and community. I got into prison hopeless, thinking everyone was going to continuously judge me for my past sins, she added.Adelaide Murombo (21) from Chiweshe, was sentenced to 30 months for attempted murder. She said being pregnant meant she would only do light duties in prison. I was convicted for attempted murder. I attacked my uncle with a sharp object in self defence as he tried to rape me, but unfortunately no one believed me and I was arrested. I have served two years and two months of my sentence and had four months to go. At the time of my conviction I was one and a half month pregnant with my boyfriend s child. Among other benefits, prison officers did not allow me to carry out heavy chores from the time I was five months pregnant, she narratedMurombo said she appreciated the manner in which she was treated following her delivery. I gave birth through a Caesarean section and they gave me three months to recover without having to do any work. My relatives back in Chiweshe never made any effort to bring baby clothes, but this was okay as the prison provided all that for free. Our kids receive special care whilst in here and sometimes you forget that you are in prison. At nine months without fail our kids are taken to cr che in here. I would have struggled to do so if I was fending for this child out there alone, she addedAnother inmate 30-year-old Muchaneta Musinahama was also arrested for attempted murder while six months pregnant.She said being pregnant in prison taught her to value the spirit of oneness. I have been in jail for nine months. As expecting mothers, we have a special cell where we would stay together and help each other look after our children after delivery, she said. Being in the pregnant women s cell taught me a spirit of togetherness. One did not necessarily have what they called their own, we literally shared everything, from napkins, baby clothes to some preparation items. Through this we created some unbreakable bonds. No one amongst us bought any of the clothes that our kids are wearing today, these were all donated to us. Because of this, we are so open to the spirit of sharing. Some of the women, however, made it clear that prison was not the best place to raise a child. Inmates often fought and quarrelled exchanging obscenities.The women also alleged that some prison guards used vulgar language and also shouted obscenities at prisoners.This made the prison environment very hostile and not conducive for raising a child.Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services Public Relations Officer Priscilla Mthembo said when a pregnant woman is imprisoned they make sure routine checks are conducted and that prenatal services and health education is provided to prepare the women for the birth just like any other maternity home. We do not have maternity facilities in here so we take our pregnant inmates to any general hospital in the city where they register for delivery and are often taken through regular routine checks for pregnant women, she said.Superintendent Mthembo added that the children stay in prison for up to 24 months while they are breastfeeding. At two years of age we believe that the child would have grown to a reasoning age where they can easily notice that the environment they live in is not suitable. We then release the child to the mother s relatives or place them in homes. The biological mother will be able to make constant visits to keep a bond with her child, she addedTwo thousand prisoners were released from prisons nationwide when President Mugabe extended the amnesty on May 23 in terms of Section 112 (1) (a) and (d) of the Constitution of Zimbabwe.The amnesty was a move to decongest national prisons and promote better living conditions for all.