Munyaradzi KerekeTendai Rupapa Senior Court Reporter THE trial of Zanu-PF Bikita West legislator Munyaradzi Kereke continued yesterday with his former security guard stating that the MP was not at the scene where the alleged offences were committed. Kereke is facing allegations of raping a 13-year-old relative in 2010 and indecently assaulting her sister at one of his houses in Vainona.Taurai Bwanaisa exonerated Kereke saying he actually booked him in his occurrence book when he arrived at his Mandara house on August 20 and 21, 2010.He said Kereke was accompanied by his brother Claitos. My duties included guarding the house and recording in the log book whoever entered and left the house. I can confirm that my boss came on August 20 at around 9pm with his brother and left the following morning around 10am. They came back on that same night and left in the morning, he said.Bwanaisa claimed Kereke did not go out during the night.He was responding to private prosecutor Mr Charles Warara during cross examination. We were two guards at that house but I am the one who opened and closed the gate for them. The padlock to the gate had three keys, therefore I gave my workmate one of the keys and remained with the other one, he said.When Mr Warara asked the whereabouts of the third key, Bwanaisa changed his earlier statement saying he kept two keys.Mr Warara said it was impossible for Mr Kereke not to have keys to his own house. Is that possible that the owner of the house does not have a key to his own gate? Also it does not make sense that you recorded his movements at his own house in a log book. For what? You are simply saying all this so as to suit accused person s defence that he was not in Vainona on the day in question, he said.Bwanaisa failed to produce the occurrence book in court saying he left it with the police when they recorded his statement. The reason why you are not producing the book is because it does not portray what you are saying in this court, said Mr Warara.Mr Warara discredited Bwanaisa s evidence saying it was fabricated. Before the accused was arrested, he had ample time to fabricate documents which were in his favour, including that occurrence book. You are also not a credible witness because you were coached what to say in court. You left a lot of things in your statement to the police which you are now telling the court, an indication that you were coached to synchronise with what had been said by other witnesses, said Mr Warara.Bwanaisa failed to furnish Mr Warara with the names of other people who visited Kereke s Mandara house on August 16, 18, 19, 22 and 23. It is surprising that you vividly remember that Kereke and his brother came to the house on August 21 and 22, yet you cannot remember the people who entered on the other days. If you cannot recall these other dates, what is so special about remembering the 20th and the 21st? This clearly shows you were coached, he said.Mr Warara accused Bawanaisa of telling lies in a bid to exonerate Kereke.Bwanaisa was adamant he was telling the truth.