Mitsubishi Pajero 2016Tinashe Makichi : Motoring CorrespondentThe Pajero 2016 boasts of a 3,2 litre direct injection diesel engine which provides superior torque, especially at low and mid rev ranges. Local car dealer, Zimoco is now the official dealer and distributor of Mitsubishi vehicles in Zimbabwe. Zimoco was confirmed the official distributor by the Japanese vehicle manufacturer Mitsubishi, two weeks ago and this confirmation adds another luxury brand to Zimoco s portfolio that already boasts of Mercedes Benz, the Jeep and GWM vehicles among others.The new marriage between Zimoco and Mitsubishi has already taken the local market by storm through the introduction of the new Mitsubishi Pajero 2016. I have seen the sun rise over Saharan dunes and set on Pacific waves. I have made my own roads through jungles and over mountains, and triumphed over my rivals in races that stretch the bounds of endurance. I have travelled with the great beasts of the land as they migrate across the Savannah, and experienced adventures no words can describe. This is my story. This is my legend. I am Pajero. This is the story of the Mitsubishi Pajero brand! The Pajero 2016 boasts of a 3,2 litre direct injection diesel engine which provides superior torque, especially at low and mid rev ranges.Its common rail injection system electronically controls fuel intake to deliver precisely the right amount to each cylinder, while the direct injection system enables far more efficient combustion for better fuel efficiency and reduced emissions.After test driving the vehicle, the writer can safely say that Pajero s rally proven all wheel independent suspension gives drivers confident, predictable handling in even the most unpredictable conditions.Just to feel the adventure, I had to drive along Herbert Chitepo Avenue s pothole riddled extension around Belvedere. It was a stroll in the park, and a marvel of a ride.The independent front wishbone type suspension of the vehicle and rear multi-link double wishbone independent suspension provide quick and natural responses, especially when cornering. The independent suspension, coil springs and monocoque body all work together to provide a greater degree of suspension travel.After getting a lecture while test-driving, the results were just impressive road-handling and greater stability even over the roughest off-road conditions.Designed for extra levels of safety and added driving convenience, the Pajero s Multi-function steering wheel lets you operate the vehicle s audio and cruise control functions without having to take your hands off the wheel.The vehicle is equipped with Bluetooth capabilities for complete hands-free voice control, keeping you connected and in control whatever the driving conditions you are facing.Designed, engineered and tuned to provide multi-channel audio performance typically reserved for only the finest of home theatres and professional recording studios.To provide as much carrying space as possible, the vehicle s second row can have the seat-backs folded down, and then the seats themselves can be folded up and out of the way. You can also fold down just one part of the 60:40 split second row, for carrying extra-long cargo.The third row seats can be easily folded up and stowed away in Pajero s under floor compartment, then folded out again when you need the extra seating capacity. This gives you plenty of room for groceries, suitcases or bulky cargo.