Pep GuardiolaBERLIN. Bayern Munich are desperate to avoid losing a third consecutive Champions League soccer semi-final to Spanish opponents when they host Atletico Madrid tonight, but coach Pep Guardiola has his work cut out to end his time in Germany on a high. The match kicks-off at 8:45pm.Guardiola inherited the reigning European champions when he joined Bayern in 2013, but has endured successive semi-final failures since, falling to Real Madrid in 2014 and to his former club Barcelona last season.His hopes of reaching a first Champions League final since his Barcelona side beat Manchester United 3-1 in 2011 were dented after Saul Niguez s brilliant solo goal gave Atletico a 1-0 first-leg victory.With Guardiola leaving for Manchester City at the season send, this is his last chance to conquer Europe with Bayern, who won the first of their five European Cups by defeating Atletico in the 1974 final. It s not over yet, we still have a chance, Guardiola told reporters. If we lose it, you can kill me, but we still have a chance. Atletico coach Diego Simeone also believes the tie is open. Playing in Munich means they ll have their fans supporting them, but we have the opportunity to score an away goal. We need to be on fire on Tuesday, said Thomas Mueller, who shone as Bayern were held 1-1 by Borussia Moenchengladbach on Saturday and were consequently made to wait for their fourth consecutive Bundesliga title.Mueller s return was one of eight changes from the Atletico match made by Bayern, who were boosted by the return of Jerome Boateng, who had not featured since January.Arjen Robben, sidelined for two months with a hamstringinjury, says that he is fighting to return this season but will miss out, while Guardiola confirmed he does not know whether Franck Ribery will recover from a back complaint. We ll do everything we can to have Franck back, said Guardiola, who is also without defender Holger Badstuber.Guardiola knows he needs to prove his critics wrong by overturning a 1-0 first-leg deficit against Atletico Madrid in tonight s match.Having won 14 titles in four years at Barcelona and six titles so far in three years with Bayern, Guardiola hopes to sign off in charge of Munich by lifting the Champions League trophy at the final on May 28 in Milan.Bayern have exited the Champions League semi-finals for the last two years running with defeats to Real Madrid in 2014, then to Barcelona last year.Another exit at the hands of Spanish opposition will not go down well in Bavaria, especially in the wake of Guardiola s decision to start the first leg in Madrid with Germany star Mueller, Bayern s top scorer in Europe this season, on the bench.The decision drew plenty of criticism from the German media and, by his own admission, the Munich leg is Guardiola s final bullet in the battle to prove any critics wrong before he leaves to coach Manchester City next season. I have read in a German newspaper that my work in Munich will only be valued, and the job considered done, if I win the Champions League. That s how it ll be seen, Guardiola told reporters after Bayern saw off Benfica in the quarter-finals. Bayern have been unstoppable at home in Europe this season, winning all five games at the Allianz Arena, but needed extra time to come back from 2-0 down to beat Juventus 4-2 at home in the second leg of the last 16.They have won all 11 home games in Europe since being hammered 4-0 in the Munich leg by Real Madrid in the 2014 semi-finals, having lost 1-0 in Spain.But, as they demonstrated in Saturday s 1-1 Bundesliga draw at home to Borussia Moechengladbach, they are simply not currently playing well, as they typically sat back after taking an early lead through Mueller s header.The result denied Bayern the victory which would have confirmed them as Bundesliga champions, now they have to wait until Saturday s away game at Ingolstadt when they could become the first club to win four straight German league titles.The good news from the Gladbach draw is that Germany defender Jerome Boateng is fit again after 99 days out with a groin injury having played the first 68 minutes in Munich. It was important to get a few minutes. I hope with the emotions of the game I ll have the strength to play for the 90 minutes (against Atletico). The tempo will be very different, said Boateng. Our chances are good. We re playing at home, the pitch will be good and we want to put pressure on from the start. In turn, Simeone s Atletico were boosted by the news Uruguay defender Diego Godin and Belgium winger Yannick Carrasco took part in training on Sunday after injury.Godin has missed the last two weeks with a hamstring injury and is set to return as the cornerstone of Atletico s defence in their bid to repeat their run to the 2014 final, there they lost 4-1 to Real Madrid after extra-time. It is the best thing to have great games and the tiredness matters little, said Atletico s Antoine Griezmann, the goal-scorer in their 1-0 Spanish league win over Rayo Vallecano on Saturday, when Simeone made seven changes. We are very enthusiastic. Every player dreams of playing in a Champions League semi-final and we will give everything. AFP.