Jose MourinhoMANCHESTER. Jose Mourinho has called on his Manchester United players to erase the memories of the last three years and restore a giant club to its former glories. Mourinho was confirmed as United manager yesterday after signing a four-year contract, with the option to cut ties after three years, following months of speculation.Having been unveiled in his new role, Mourinho then took the opportunity of his first United interview to issue a rallying cry to his players to cast aside the difficulties of the last three years.United won their first trophy since Sir Alex Ferguson s retirement in 2013 by winning the FA Cup this season but both David Moyes and Louis van Gaal paid with their jobs for a lack of major success.Mourinho and Van Gaal worked together at Barcelona from 1997 but that has not stopped the new boss looking to rewrite the recent history books to erase the memory of his former colleague.Mourinho, a winner of three English Premier League titles, is determined to bring back the regular silverware that United fans were so accustomed to in the past. We can look at our club now in two perspectives, Mourinho told MUTV. One perspective is the past three years, and another prospective is the club s history. I prefer to forget the last three years. I prefer to focus on the giant club I have in my hands now and I think what the fans are expecting me to say is that I want to win. I think what the players need to listen to is I want to win. And more than that I need the supporters and the players to feel that I say that, not just for the sake of saying it, but because I think we really can. I want to focus on the history of this giant club and give what I have and what I don t have, so I will give absolutely everything to try to go in the direction we all want. Mourinho is planning a summer full of transfer activity with the former Chelsea manager being handed 200million to spend in his bid to create a squad able to challenge for the title.That spree could include moves for Zlatan Ibrahimovic, John Stones and Nemanja Matic.But after the initial excitement of the unveiling his main focus is on a return to the pitch &#8211; something he has missed since his Stamford Bridge sacking in December.United regroup following the summer break on June 7 before Mourinho s first game against Borussia Dortmund in Shanghai on July 22. I feel great, I think I m in the right moment of my career because Manchester United is one of these clubs you need to be prepared for, because it s a giant club, the 53-year-old said. Giant clubs must be for the best managers. I think I am ready for it so I could say I m happy, I m proud, I m honoured, I m everything, but the reality is that what I love is to work and I cannot wait for July 7 to go on the pitch. Earlier in the day Mourinho spoke of the special honour of managing United after being confirmed as the new boss at 9:30am yesterday morning.Sportsmail broke the news of United s interest in Mourinho on February 6 but it has taken until May 27 for United to officially announce his appointment. To become Manchester United manager is a special honour in the game, Mourinho said. It is a club known and admired throughout the world. There is a mystique and a romance about it which no other club can match. I have always felt an affinity with Old Trafford; it has hosted some important memories for me in my career and I have always enjoyed a rapport with the United fans. I m looking forward to being their manager and enjoying their magnificent support in the coming years.Sportsmail revealed on Monday that the Old Trafford club had already paid The Special One 4m not to take a job elsewhere while they decided on the future of his predecessor.The finer details of his contract were ironed out with United executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward this week before the announcement of Mourinho s arrival was made. Jose is quite simply the best manager in the game today, Woodward said. He has won trophies and inspired players in countries across Europe and, of course, he knows the Premier League very well, having won three titles here. I d like to take this opportunity to welcome him to Manchester United. His track record of success is ideal to take the club forward. Mailonline