Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter A 30-member Mighty Warriors squad trooped into camp on Sunday at ZIFA Village to kick-start their preparations for the Olympic Games scheduled for Rio de Janeiro, in August. The Zimbabwe senior women football team will be making their maiden appearance at the Games following their qualification last year. We are going through the physical test, then from there we are going to balance all aspects of the game. We are going to work on fitness, tactics and mental preparedness. They will go through fitness test. We need to do them periodically, the current levels of those areas that were tested before. The anthropometric were done earlier on and this time we are focusing only on fitness tests, said coach Shadreck Mlauzi.Players were still reporting for camp yesterday and Mlauzi said they were expecting to have everyone in by end of the day. Mlauzi said they would want to have two friendly matches inside four days at the end of the camp for players to adapt to the tournament s format if resources permit. At the end of the three-week period we are going to play friendly matches, just like we said earlier on. We want these players to adapt to short recovery tactics from game one to the second game. We have in plan a game against South Africa on the 18th and then South Africa on the 21st. The same goes for our Europe tour, a game against Norway and Sweden so that our players adapt to the tournament format. We are hoping for the best again for these preparations, said Mlauzi.ZIFA communications officer Xolisani Gwesela said they are still organising friendly matches for the team. I can confirm work is in progress for those friendly matches. Information in relation to the friendly matches will be unveiled later this week, said Gwesela.Mighty Warriors SquadGoalkeepers: Chido Dzingirai, Lindiwe Magwede, Manyara Mandara, Hilda Mufakose.Defenders: Nobuhle Majika, Sheila Makoto, Eunice Chibanda, Lynett Mutokuto, Ruvimbo Mutyavaviri, Patience Mujuru, Nobukhosi Ncube, Danai Bhobho.Midfielders: Emmaculate Msipa, Marjory Nyaumwe, Aldiglade Bhamu, Viola NdlovuGreater Bhande, Talent Mandaza, Mavis Chirandu, Daisy Kaitano, Rejoice KapfumvutiRufaro Machingura.Strikers: Felistas Muzongondi, Rudo Neshamba, Erina Jeke, Kudakwashe BasopoSamkelisiwe Zulu, Berita Kabwe, Sibonginkosi Nleya, Maud Mafuruse.