Tinashe Nyamushanya : Cool Lifetsyle WriterGod can raise a dead person, but will never raise a person comfortably tucked in their bed. If you do not move your life, no one is going to do it for you. Someone once said, God gives every bird it s food but He doesn t throw it into its nest . The same applies to us, opportunities are not just going to come from nowhere, go out there and network yourself! Victims wait for things to happen but victors make things happen. You need to challenge yourself to greater heights. Greatness in intentional, it is not an accident. You can decide to die the way you are. You can defy your past, your present and create a meaningful future. There is greatness within you, you can unleash it. Get mad, get angry and challenge your limitations. If you cannot take charge of your life you cannot change it. Victims see other people as the cause for their misfortunes. Victors see themselves as the authors of their fortunes. You can take change of your social life.You can do all that, the moment you resolve to live your life and face whatever comes. Let today be the day you stop being a victim of your circumstances and start taking action towards the life you want. You have the power and time to shape your life.Break free from the poisonous victim mentality and embrace the truth of your greatness. You were not meant for a mediocre life! There is power within you to turn your situation around. You cannot see all this if you always see yourself as a victim. Your life starts to change the moment you take the first step to change it. You must risk losing in order to gain. You can choose to be affected by your past or you can choose to affect your future. So choose wisely!!!Learn to reward yourself beyond your limit by using your God given potential. It doesn t matter what life gives you to work with, it is what you do with what you re given that makes the difference. You don t have reasons to achieve your mission on earth.You can do something with yourself regardless of the difficulties that surround you. Strive for excellence, and live a life of excellence. You don t become excellent in your service by simply having the word excellence as part of your vocabulary. You practice and live it. The wishing doesn t take you anywhere but action does. What you practice daily becomes a part of you. Your life will not change today but it will be changed by what you do daily. Do not just wish for a greater height but desire to excel in whatever you will be doing.Always note that, you re a product of the decisions that you make. It is either you can choose to live a life of excellence or you can choose to live a life of mediocrity. So what you practice daily becomes a part of you. Excellence is the price that is paid for greatness. Greatness is responsibility. Until next time, practice excellence!!!&nbsp;The writer is an Upper Sixth Arts student at Dzivarasekwa 1 High School