Cde Khaya MoyoSamantha Chigogo: Herald Correspondent Zanu-PF has hailed its Youth League for successfully holding the Million- Man March, describing it as a first of its kind in asserting Zimbabwean youths support for President Mugabe s iconic leadership before and after independence. The party s information and publicity secretary Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said the Zanu-PF leadership was pleased with the success of the Million-Man March held on Africa Day. Zanu-PF leadership and its entire membership across the country congratulates its Youth League for organising an overwhelming successful Million-Man March in honour of the iconic leadership of President Robert Gabriel Mugabe, held on May 25 in Harare, he said.This follows the march in the capital by hundreds of thousands of Zanu-PF supporters on Africa Day who were later addressed by President Mugabe. Such a historic gathering, attended by hundreds of thousands of people from all corners of Zimbabwe has not been witnessed for a very long time. In reality, it is the first of its size to be organised by the Youth League. Cde Khaya Moyo is also the Minister of Policy Co-ordination and Promotion of Socio-Economic Ventures in the President s Office.He hailed Zanu-PF youths for showing political maturity. This is a clear demonstration that the Youth League is much focused, disciplined, hardworking and respectful and emulate the attributes of our iconic President Robert Mugabe with great admiration, said Cde Khaya Moyo. Such a stand is reassuring and as future leaders of this country the youths have made an eloquent statement that the future of Zimbabwe will be in good hands. They have done the nation proud. The party will indeed support them all the way towards economic emancipation. Cde Khaya Moyo urged youths to continuously shun factionalism and corruption. The Youth League must have been thrilled like all of us by President Mugabe s address. The speech was all embracing and acknowledged the pivotal role of the youth in national building, he said. The President indeed congratulated the Youth League for a job well done. He encouraged them to promote unity at every stage and shun the evils of factionalism, corruption, tribalism and regionalism. Cde Khaya Moyo saluted the Women s League and all structures of the party for having assisted the Youth League to achieve such a historic landmark, saying the march would be cherished for years to come.