THE NEW RED DEVIL . . . Jose Mourinho poses with a Manchester United shirt after being confirmed as the club s new manager yesterdayMANCHESTER. Jose Mourinho says it is a special honour to have signed for Manchester United after the club confirmed his appointment yesterday morning. Mourinho has signed a three-year contract worth 36 million.Mourinho (53) succeeds Dutchman Louis van Gaal who was sacked as manager on Monday.The Portuguese boss agent Jorge Mendes has been in negotiations with United officials for three days to secure the deal. To become Manchester United manager is a special honour in the game, he told manutd.com. It is a club known and admired throughout the world. There is a mystique and a romance about it which no other club can match. I have always felt an affinity with Old Trafford; it has hosted some important memories for me in my career and I have always enjoyed a rapport with the United fans. I m looking forward to being their manager and enjoying their magnificent support in the coming years. Mourinho has long been linked with the Old Trafford job and a deal was said to be stalling this week due to the Portuguese s sponsorship deal and an issue involving his image rights.However, everything has now been resolved and the 53-year-old has been confirmed as van Gaal s successor.A club statement read: Mourinho will take over as manager of Manchester United from the 2016/17 season, signing a three-year contract with an option to stay at the club until at least 2020. He has managed at the top level of European football for over a decade and in that time has won league titles and cups in four countries (Portugal, England, Italy and Spain), as well as winning the UEFA Champions League twice in 2004 with FC Porto and in 2010 with Inter Milan. Ed Woodward said: Jose is quite simply the best manager in the game today. He has won trophies and inspired players in countries across Europe and, of course, he knows the Premier League very well, having won three titles here. I d like to take this opportunity to welcome him to Manchester United. His track record of success is ideal to take the club forward. Although no official confirmation has been offered on his backroom staff, Mourinho will bring long-term lieutenants Rui Faria and Silvino Louro with him to United.Mourinho was sacked by Chelsea in December after a disastrous start to their Premier League title defence that saw the Blues languishing in 16th place.The success of the season previous brought the Portuguese coach a third crown from the English top division and his immediate aim will be to secure a fourth at United when the new season begins in August.He will be backed by a 200m transfer budget with a summer spending spree on the cards and initial targets already identified.Paris Saint-Germain striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic is in line for a reunion with the manager he worked under at Inter Milan while Mourinho also has eyes on Everton s John Stones and Atletico Madrid star Saul Niguez.The 53-year-old could also return to former club Chelsea to recruit midfielder Nemanja Matic.In two spells at Chelsea, the Portuguese won the Premier League three times &#8211; including their first league title for 50 years &#8211; and both the FA Cup and League Cup.He also won league championships in his first seasons at Porto and Inter Milan before helping Real Madrid to their first La Liga crown in four years.By their own high standards, United have struggled since Alex Ferguson retired three years ago, never finishing higher than fourth in the English standings.Their fifth-place finish under Van Gaal this season meant they failed to qualify for the Champions League for the second time since Ferguson left.Van Gaal did win the FA Cup &#8211; the first time United had lifted the trophy in 12 years &#8211; but due to widespread condemnation of the style of football his team played it was not enough to save him.There are reservations about Mourinho s preferred style of play, with former United striker Eric Cantona saying the club should have opted instead for Pep Guardiola, who is taking over as manager of Manchester City.But other former players, including goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel and former captain Steve Bruce, believe he will revive the club s fortunes.Mourinho, who has won the Champions League with Porto and Inter Milan, will lead United in the Europa League next season. The Daily Express