Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis Today we will continue on Faith as a Perspective. Just as we discovered last week, that faith as a perspective is a decision that is made in the heart as one believes in the most high God and His infallible Word! Read on as you discover how to make your faith focused and get the desire of your heart. O hallelujah! Now faith is the substance of things hope for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the Elders obtained a good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Hebrews 11:1-3You see at the beginning of the year you might have believed for a car, a healing, a job, a financial breakthrough, or whatever desire of your heart in 2016 and you declared and declared.However, you need to understand that inside you, faith is not alone, it has other community members.Faith occupies a particular compartment, but next to it there is a doubt compartment. And also nearby, fear is there. That s why you don t struggle to reach out to doubt because it s so near.You might believe this minute, but the next minute you are filled with doubt.Doubt did not come from a faraway place, but it is neighbouring your faith, thus was always lurking around seeking to influence you.Since your faith is surrounded by doubt, fear, depression and discouragement, you have to fight so that faith will rise and take over every other house/ compartment that is in the community.Faith must overtake and overcome every other house! Doubt must not say anything and dictate things in your life!Depression must not be a part of you! Basically all the negatives mentioned here will not be part of you when faith rises higher. Therefore, make a decision to walk and live by faith invest in faith so that it reigns supreme over the other community members. O hallelujah!Have you not wondered at times, when you feel fine, but suddenly you begin to fear and you wonder why you are feeling that way, but you fail to understand the reason why.Realise that faith is surrounded by fear and all you need to do to silence the fear and doubt is to stir your faith in your heart.I m not sure which component reigns supreme among the community members in your heart but you can still decide today to make faith to rule over the other components.Remember God will not do anything beyond what you believe. God will not do anything beyond the goals you have set for yourself.When you set your goals, don t set them casually for example telling yourself that in this year of a double portion, I want to buy my own car but later when you are eating, then you change your mind and begin to say, The car issue is not for me, for me to drive a car this year, that would be an impossible miracle .This is confusion, because later on you begin to say, God you are going to be glorified when I get my car. God doesn t respect this half-hearted believing. It is the reason why many do not receive answers!But 2016 is a good year, faith must rise up in your life O glory!Don t allow doubt to rise up when you have purposed to do something.You should clearly know that God is not a failure and has no history of failure whether there are giants or fearful situations God has always succeeded.In Hebrews 11: 2, the Bible says, For by it (Faith) the Elders obtained a good report. The Bible doesn t say the Elders were good but got a good report by Faith.Therefore, you are made good by your Faith.The Bible says, because of Faith, Abraham became a friend of God (James 2:23). His believe in God was counted as righteousness.I will give you an example from accounting sector.When a balance sheet is prepared, a profit is declared, which might be $20.It doesn t necessarily mean that the $20 is there physically, but it might have been used already, for example purchasing shoes.Note that, even if the money is already used, it is still counted as profit. You might have $5 but the other $15 is also profit because you have the shoes in your house. Similarly when you believe God, it is counted on you to be righteousness.When you put your trust in God and purpose (Faith as a perspective) that whatever come your way, it will come from the Hand of the Most High God, and strongly believe that God will never let you down then it will be counted as righteousness.When you have faith, exercise your muscle.The tragedy is that some people who call themselves people of faith rely on natural wisdom and they pursue natural plans. When you have faith, you need to relax and declare that a miracle is coming my way.I know that when you do that the other community members like fear and doubt will rise up and warn you that you have told the people by faith that you will do it, thus if you don t do it, what will happen you are going to be embarrassed? I advise you not to listen to the voice of doubt.You might have settled for the average things in life but its time you for you to stir what is inside your heart, decide and declare that you are not what people see but what you believe. Start to believe that you can achieve great things in your life. For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27