Bulawayo Bureau Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko has called on Zimbabweans to name and shame corrupt officials to weed out the vice, which he blamed for stifling development in the country. Addressing delegates attending the two-day Zim-Asset Bulawayo stakeholders engagement conference, the Vice President said the time had come for Zimbabweans to stand up and fight corruption. There s one animal which we ve to talk about very seriously corruption. Please, please, the leaders of this workshop, khulumani ngayo (talk about it) lingesabi amagama (don t be afraid of names). If I m rotten say it please, said VP Mphoko drawing applause from the large audience. Some road funds have been availed for the City of Bulawayo, but thieves stole it. Some road projects are hanging in the balance to date and we can t live like that as a people. We have children and grandchildren who, when they grow up, will find nothing, completely nothing and they will just know about history. The ministers are here, let s find solutions to this, ask them questions that pertain to their portfolios and get answers. VP Mphoko said the conference, which ends today, presented an opportunity for Bulawayo residents and the business community to get feedback on progress in the implementation of Zim-Asset, particularly on issues that affect the city s economy.He said the Government was ready to work with all concerned parties in revitalising the city s industry and infrastructure as part of efforts to create more job opportunities.The VP challenged the business community and local leaders to also play their part. Bulawayo is our city. We have a very big task, not only to sit down and talk like what other conferences do. What the President and First Lady, the Government and people of Zimbabwe want is to come up with tangible proposals on issues that affect people, things that will help us revive this economy, he said. Let s pinpoint them as we are here instead of just pontificating like pastors. We have to exchange views. We have ministers here and people responsible for certain things. Bulawayo should not collapse in your hands, never. Other people played their part. That s why there s this infrastructure and other things that are decaying in our hands. This meeting must be frank because outside that we can t achieve anything. VP Mphoko tasked Agriculture Deputy Minister responsible for livestock, Paddy Zhanda, to explain why the Cold Storage Company (CSC) was not being resuscitated despite being a critical economic pillar that could earn the country increased gains through exports.He was also critical of the Ministry of Home Affairs and openly took its Deputy Minister Obedingwa Mguni to task over the issue of having people travel to Harare to access registry services such as obtaining a passport. Shoot from the hip on these men, charged VP Mphoko.He also called for the banning of haulage trucks in the transportation of coal saying this was the business of the National Railways of Zimbabwe. Let s remove these trucks from the road because they are causing a lot of damage and are killing people. As citizens we are here for you. You have to say things and not just sit there doing nothing. What s important is that Bulawayo is for us all. Let s talk to each other and address our problems, said Mphoko.He said the conference was supposed to be led by the First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe who could not attend because of other commitments.The VP urged participants to come up with concrete implementable resolutions.Several Cabinet ministers, business executives and ordinary citizens are attending the meeting.