Jorge Paulo SilvaEddie Chikamhi Sports Reporter HARARE giants Dynamos appear to be in a dilemma as they apparently are not sure with what to do with Portuguese coach Paulo Jorge Silva, who has fallen short of his target after he was handed a three-match ultimatum. Silva was recently asked by the club s executive to collect nine points from the three matches against Mutare City Rovers, CAPS United and Hwange to keep his job.However, after winning 2-1 in Mutare, the loss to bitter rivals Makepekepe last Sunday meant he can no longer meet the demand. Silva told reporters after the match that he was not aware of the ultimatum and would continue with his duties as he hopes to see his three-year contract through.Dynamos chairman Kenny Mubaiwa yesterday said the coach will continue with his duties this week but his committee will convene a meeting with the technical team after the next game at Hwange.Mubaiwa said it was clear the technical team have fallen short and their fate will be sealed after the next match away to Hwange. Look what is happening here, if you use good handwriting to answer an examination without addressing the question being asked it only means you will not pass. So it doesn t mean anything to say the team is playing well but with no results. What we want at the end of the day are results. The supporters as well want results, everyone wants results. From our previous meeting with the technical team, we agreed that we wanted nine points in their next three games and that s it. We are going to call them after the match at Hwange and discuss the way forward, said Mubaiwa.The Harare giants are understood to be hunting for Silva s replacement and could not rush to sack him without first tying down capable replacements. Their former coach Tonderayi Ndiraya and ex-Warriors man Rahman Gumbo are believed to be queuing up for the job.Mubaiwa said it was painful to lose to Makepekepe, his first time to taste defeat to their football arch-rivals since he took over the reins at the Harare giants. He also hinted that the lack of strikers came to haunt them again in that match as his team played well but looked toothless upfront. We really enjoyed the dominance over CAPS United all those years but it happens in football, there always comes a time when one day you lose a match to your opponents. So it happened on Sunday. It was their (CAPS United) day. I know what it means to our fans but I would like to plead with them to continue rallying behind the team. They should continue with the same spirit they demonstrated on Sunday. If you look at the way we played on Sunday, I can give assurance that things can come right. Our team has a future. It s unfortunate I couldn t attend the game. I was away and I really thought I could get back on time for the match but it wasn t to be. However, I watched the replays on television and it appears for all our industry and good efforts, our problems come back to the issue that we are not scoring goals. The boys played well but we just couldn t score. CAPS United also played well and the only difference was that they managed to score a goal. We are doing our best to try and address the problem. We are desperate to get the strikers. We are looking everywhere and the decision to take (Evans) Gwekwerere when the season had already started shows how desperate we are with this issue, said Mubaiwa.