Paul Mundandi in Zvishavane Border Strikers . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Mutare City Rovers . . . . . . . (0)1 Mutare City Rovers powered to their first win in the Castle Lager Premiership after beating homeless Border Strikers who were reduced to 10 men at Maglas yesterday. Former Chiredzi FC man Sam Msimbu found the target in the 82nd minute. City had lost all three opening matches and the visiting players celebrated as if they had won the league championship.Substitute Caleb Masocha won possession on the right and beat the challenge of the Border Strikers captain Michael Variso before crossing the ball to Renias Machawira. Machawira passed responsibility to Msimbu, who was unmarked in the box and he fired home. I dedicate the goal to my five-year-old daughter Mitchelle. I am excited that we finally found the winning formula today when I scored my first goal of the season. Fans in Mutare should brace for more goals, said Msimbu.The hosts fielded a disjointed side as all the senior players chose not to travel as they are owed their salaries and signing-on fees. The players, who have been on strike for the past two weeks, are owed varying amounts in signing-on fees and outstanding salaries.The team from the border town was reduced to 10 men in the 31st minute when referee Makonese Masakadza expelled Prince Sibanda for a crude tackle on Msimbu.It was his second bookable offence.Mutare City coach Taku Shariwa was on cloud nine after the final whistle. It s very exciting to get maximum points in your second game in charge, especially against Central Region Champions. I am also very happy that for the first time we did not concede and that my team was resilient. We kept on believing and it paid dividends and to us it s a morale-booster, he said.His opposite number Saul Chaminuka said they paid a price for their challenges. I had players who have never kicked a ball in the Premiership. We could have won if I had my players. If you are disjointed like this there is nothing to expect. We have lost and that is a game of football. We are still yet to win. We have problems in the camp. I just hope that my bosses will sort out the problems as soon as possible, said Chaminuka.Teams Border Strikers: S Kaurimbo, S Mazumba, M Mwenya, G Mukambi, M Variso, M Mugadzaneta, L Genti, M Chirape (I Chaminuka 75th min), P Sibanda, T Mukambi (D Tito 89th min), T KalungaMutare City: P Nhete, C Muzavazi, A Nyakabawo, E Sinaputa, W Mapfumo, B Mukwena, D Duri, S Msimbu, T Chabwana (K Gurure 78th min), H Mukukutu, S Sibanda (C Masocha 52nd min)