THE corruption allegations against some senior members of our society are not only bad for the economy but have a huge bearing on our perception rating, especially by those who may want to do business with us. Government should send a clear message of its intolerance for corruption by conducting thorough investigations of such allegations and coming hard on those found to have committed a crime regardless of their social or political status.So much has been said and written about corruption but there seems to be no slowing down on the vice. Over the past few weeks Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa has made the campaign against corruption a major theme of his addresses. This needs to be supported by action on the ground as a warning to society at large.Those accused of corruption should not be treated with kid s gloves. They must get exemplary treatment.Government speaks against corruption that has left some companies and parastatals on their knees due to sustained looting spree. We appreciate that there might be skills shortages in pinning down offenders in white collar corruption cases. This could explain why the police find it hard to arrest those accused of corruption because in Zimbabwe one is presumed innocent until proven guilty. We want to believe this is not encouraging people to take liberties, knowing it will be hard to prove a case against them. Politicians, whom the majority of our people look up to serve their interests, have not always acquitted themselves well. They seem to be mostly concerned with serving their own interests, at times using public funds set aside to help the poor and vulnerable in these challenging economic times.Those accused of corruption always find or invent excuses for their actions. They are quick to blame political enemies as if they were entirely innocent. Until proved otherwise, we don t believe factionalism should be an issue when dealing with matters of corruption.Those who are accused of fraud or corruption should ordinarily put their cards on the table and demonstrate that they are being unjustly accused. It is up to them to prove to the nation that they are clean.As it is, the name of the ruling party is being dragged in the mud because people lack conviction of what they claim to be the case. The party is bigger than a few individuals. It is an institution which should be respected. Those who use its name to abuse their public office should be made to account.It is unfortunate that the party is now being held to ransom by those who suggest exposing corrupt officials could weaken or damage the party. In fact taking action against such people can only make it stronger.There is a general perception that there is a lot of corruption in the country. This is not new. It is those people who engage in corrupt activities who soil the names of both the party and the country. People would be happy to learn that the law is being allowed to take its course.The fight against corruption should be real. It must translate into action being taken against those found on the wrong side of the law. That way Government will restore people s trust.