Cde ChomboFelex Share Senior Reporter The Zanu-PF Politburo meets in Harare today to discuss agricultural and economic issues ahead of the forthcoming summer cropping season. Most farmers and related stakeholders have started preparing for the new season, and Politburo deliberations are expected to centre on progress made especially in inputs distribution.Issues affecting the party and pending disciplinary cases are also expected to take centre stage. Zanu-PF secretary for Administration Cde Ignatius Chombo yesterday confirmed today s meeting. As announced earlier on, there are no changes, and the Politburo is meeting as scheduled at 10am at the party s headquarters in Harare tomorrow (today), he said. We expect members to be punctual. As is the norm, the agenda will be known to the Politburo members first and the media and related stakeholders will only get to know what would have been discussed after the meeting. Sources however, said the agriculture sector would be at the forefront. The rains are around the corner and focus of the meeting will be on what is being done to ensure we have a good agricultural season, said the source. We are expecting a brief on issues to do with funding and inputs distribution for both the Command Agriculture programme and the Presidential Input Scheme. Government last week announced that it had secured more than $400 million to support farmers this season, adding that inputs under the Command Agriculture and Presidential Inputs Support Schemes were now ready for collection from various suppliers.The inputs are expected to reach farmers countrywide by October 7. Under the Presidential Input Scheme, families will get a bag of maize seed, ammonium nitrate and top dressing fertilisers.In support of the revival of agricultural production, Government also initiated the Command Agriculture programme, which is aimed at producing two million tonnes of maize on 400 000 hectares of land.Identified farmers will be given inputs, irrigation and mechanised equipment. The farmers working under strict supervision, will be required to commit five tonnes per hectare to Government as repayment for the inputs and agricultural equipment.They will retain all surplus produce for personal use. At least 2 000 farmers are expected to participate in the scheme and will sign a performance contract for three consecutive growing seasons.Government s decision to embark on Command Agriculture was necessitated by the rise in national food insecurity from about 12 percent in 2011 to 42 percent this year.On outstanding disciplinary issues, the source said: The Politburo is expected to receive reports from the National Disciplinary Committee chaired by Cde Patrick Chinamasa while Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko is also expected to present cases which the National Appeals and Review Committee would have tackled. We have pending by-elections and the commissariat department will give a report on the party s preparedness. 