NUMERO UNO . . . Portifer Dombojena (left) receives his prize from PPC Zimbabwe managing director Kelibone Masiyane (centre) while general manager sales and marketing Roger Steyn looks on at Old Hararians Sports Club yesterdayEllina Mhlanga Sports Reporter PORTIFER Dombojena is the PPC Msasa 42km marathon winner after powering to victory yesterday in a race that began at PPC Msasa Plant and ended at Old Hararians Sports Club. Dombojena, of Harare Athletics Club, crossed the finish line in 2hours 21minutes 12seconds. The race was okay because the course was so flat. It s only that I had a running stomach yesterday (Saturday), so I did not have the power to push in the last minutes. Winning the race is just a bonus, but my aim was to just finish the race. So I had to push in every kilometre, that s why I didn t stop. I was feeling some pain in my stomach, but I had to push, said Dombojena. He said he is eyeing the World 50km race in Doha, Qatar next month.In second place was Lyno Muchena, who clocked 2hours 21mnutes 24seconds while Jonathan Chinyoka took position three in 2hours 22minutes 38seconds. Chinyoka, who had hoped to clinch the title, conceded defeat.Lizzie Chokore emerged the winner in the women s section in 2hours 56minutes 41seconds, beating veteran runner Samukeliso Moyo, who came second in 3hours 2minutes 15seconds. Chokore, however, felt the level of competition could have been better. It was a good race, but the time we started it was already hot, that s the only challenge I faced. I was expecting to run 2hours 50minutes, but because of the weather I could not. For me I think there wasn t much competition, its only that I had set a target for myself in terms of the time I wanted to run, said Chokore. Monica Kativhu settled for third in 3hours 6minutes 1second.For their efforts the winners in both sections men and women walked away with $1 000 while the runners-up got $750 and $500 for second and third respectively. The 21km race was won by Canisious Nyamutsika in 1hour 1minute 45seconds and the women s title went to Constance Nyasango with a time of 1hour 15minutes 35seconds. They both pocketed $500.Nyasango recently won the Westgate half marathon. I am really happy after winning the race, it was a tough competition. I think after about 15km that s when I took the lead. I will keep on working hard, said Nyasango. Elford Moyo proved his dominance on the local scene in wheelchair racing when he crossed the finish line in 52minutes 17seconds.Thandiwe Ndlovu emerged victorious in the women s section in 1hour 13minutes 29seconds and received US$400. PPC Zimbabwe managing director, Kelibone Masiyane, said they were impressed by the support they got for their inaugural event in Harare. It was overwhelming for me, I didn t expect this kind of support being the inaugural event. So I am quite excited in terms of the turnout, it was great. We will have it again next year, it s not a once off event. In Bulawayo, we have been sponsoring the PPC Matopos race for the past five years. So we will continue doing the PPC Msasa marathon for years to come, said Masiyane. The sponsors also donated 100 chairs and desks to Danhiko worth $10 000.