Andy Muridzo. . . musician to stage solo family show at Junction 24Arts Reporter This is an opportunity we have been given to perform alone at such a prestigious venue. We do not intend to compete with anyone, but we just take opportunities as they come. Rising music star Andy Muridzo continues to invade prime venues that used to be preserved for the cream of the industry and he goes it alone on Sunday at a family show at Junction 24 along Harare-Chitungwiza highway. Show organisers confidence in having him as the only act for an event at the venue that has hosted big names like Alick Macheso, Suluman Chimbetu, Winky D and Jah Prayzah exhibits the young musician s growing stature. Muridzo is on a fast-rise that has seen him winning the hearts of many promoters including in South Africa where he staged a show last week.He is also destined to tour UK for a gig on a line-up where he could be rated as the main act, considering other performers on the list. With only two albums to his name, Muridzo has a promising future. The young musician seems to be taking advantage of a gap that Jah Prayzah has created in contemporary music by deviating from his traditional beat to pursue club bangers.Muridzo s music has striking resemblance to Jah Prayzah s original style and a section of the latter s followers that appreciate traditional beat are finding the copycat s songs preferable.Some observers have christened the unfolding contest Battle of Uzumba , since both musicians hail from the Mashonaland East rural area. Muridzo s 15-track album Ngarizhambe is getting massive airplay with the track Dherira leading the pack of other good songs like Tungamira Tiende , Haungatiukoromotse , Chidhafu Dhunda and Handirambe .The musician will obviously play all the hits at Junction 24 and mix them with some compositions from his first release Pakubuda Kwezuva . In an interview yesterday, Muridzo said he is prepared to present a memorable family show at Junction 24. This is an opportunity we have been given to perform alone at such a prestigious venue. We do not intend to compete with anyone, but we just take opportunities as they come. It is encouraging when promoters and fans show confidence in your songs and performance, he said. I did not expect such a response after just two albums and I want to thank God for the grace. I also want to thank my brother Jah Prayzah for grooming me and assisting me every time I need help. Organisers of the show said they want to give Muridzo a platform to entertain families. We understand he has done a few family shows yet he is now popular across age groups. This platform is for him to show his capacity as a solo performer. We did not include any supporting acts or other musicians of his level because we want him to show his capacity. We have been following his recent shows and we believe he can bring us good business in addition to bringing joy to our patrons, they noted.