Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CAPS United are not in the mood to let anyone spoil their party in their quest for the Castle Lager Premiership as they brace for an explosive tie against Harare City at Rufaro this afternoon. Skipper Moses Muchenje believes Harare City have the potential to throw spanners into the works and has called for maximum concentration from his teammates. It s quite a difficult game considering they don t have the pressure to achieve anything. They are just there to play more like party spoilers. So it s up to us to give all our best so that we get maximum points, said Muchenje. Makepekepe, who welcome the league s top goal-scorer Leonard Tsipa and speedy winger Phineas Bamusi, have their destiny in their hands with 54 points in the bag.Nearest rivals Highlanders, who are just one point away, host relegation candidates Tsholotsho at Barbourfields this afternoon. FC Platinum, on 52 points and still strongly involved in the race, travel to Chapungu this afternoon. We don t have to look at what is happening at the other centres. Instead, we are focusing on our game. The important thing is, we need maximum concentration. We have to apply ourselves the same way we have been doing all along to get where we are today. We want that fighting spirit and the 100 percent effort from everyone at CAPS United. That championship winning mentality, on my side as the captain, is the right kind of attitude we need for us to be successful. We have to continue with that spirit. I have said it, the final games of the season are quite tricky but for us to be champions we have to work hard. Nothing is more fulfilling on the domestic scene than winning the league championship. So the last three games to me are like World Cup matches. The good thing now is that we know such teams like Harare City are there to spoil the party. So our approach has to be correct. We need to be on point from the word go. We don t have to leave it until late like what we did against How Mine and Dynamos, said Muchenje.Makepekepe coach Lloyd Chitembwe revealed that he has a full squad at his disposal while Harare City will miss the services of Maxwell Nyamupangedengu and Martin Vengesai who have been given two weeks off.Harare City coach Moses Chunga indicated he will need to bleed young players in line with the club s vision to build a team for the future. Already he has given generous game time to youngsters such as Learnmore Muyambo, Tatenda Tumba, Sean Muneka, Jerry Chipangura and has even appointed 20-year old defender Hastings Chapusha the new captain.The youngsters will be blended with some few experienced players to guarantee results so that they finish on a respectable position. The good thing is we don t have fresh injuries in our camp. It s only that we will be without two senior players Maxwell Nyamupangedengu and Martin Vengesai who are writing exams. They will probably come back for the last match of the season, said Chunga.Harare City are currently seventh on the log standings with 38 points.Interestingly, the head to head statistics between Harare City and CAPS United are evenly matched.The sides have met nine times since 2012 when the Sunshine Boys were promoted with each side winning twice and drawing on five occasions.FixturesToday: Harare City v CAPS United (Rufaro), Ngezi Platinum v Hwange (Baobab), Chapungu v FC Platinum (Ascot), Highlanders v Tsholotsho (Barbourfields)Sunday: Border Strikers v Triangle (Dulivhadzimu), Dynamos v Mutare City (Rufaro), How Mine v Chicken Inn (Luveve), Bulawayo City v ZPC Kariba (Barbourfields)