MADRID. Controversial Spanish defender Gerard Pique insisted on Sunday that he will end his international career after the 2018 World Cup soccer finals. The Barcelona star has come under regular fire for his performances on the field and his support off the pitch for his pro-Catalan stance. The World Cup in Russia is going to be my last tournament with the national team and I hope to take a lot of pleasure from these last two years, he said after Sunday s 2-0 qualifying win against Albania. This is not a decision that I have taken today, I have been thinking about it. But the criticisms today have added to what has happened over the last few years. There are also people who believe that it s better that I am not here, added Pique who will be 31 when the 2018 World Cup takes place.Pique, who has often been jeered by Spanish fans, played in the Spain team which won the 2010 World Cup and 2012 European championships.Meanwhile, Pique has received support from coach Julen Lopetegui and the Spanish Football Federation (RFEF) after declaring his intention to quit international football following the 2018 World Cup. The Barcelona defender, who has made 86 appearances and won a World Cup and a European Championship with Spain, said constant criticism from supporters and the media had killed my joy in playing for Spain after Sunday s 2-0 win over Albania.Pique, who has been booed by Spain supporters in the last year, caused a stir on social media by appearing against Albania with the sleeves cut off his Spain shirt, thus appearing to remove the bands displaying the red and yellow colours of Spain.The RFEF released a statement yesterday with a photo highlighting that the long-sleeved shirt Pique had modified did not have the red and yellow stripes on its original design. The Royal Spanish Football Federation wishes to show its support to the international footballer Gerard Pique about the controversy regarding the cut made on his jersey in the match against Albania, the statement said. This is contrary to some malicious comments made after the Spanish player was accused of cutting the sleeves of the jersey to avoid wearing the band with the national colours. AFP.