Robert GumburaDaniel Nemukuyu: Senior Court Reporter&#8212; It never rains, but pours for jailed RMG Independent End Time Message leader Robert Martin Gumbura who is being sued over unpaid school fees for his several children to the tune of $100 000. While languishing in prison over rape, Gumbura has been slapped with a $74 000 lawsuit over an unpaid debt to Idem Trading Private Limited.Gumbura is serving a 40-year prison term for raping three congregants and illegally possessing pornographic material. He was convicted of four counts of rape involving three women and possessing pornographic material.VMG Zvinavashe Trust, which operates a private primary and high school in Tynwald, last week issued summons at the High Court claiming outstanding school fees for the prisoner s several children.The incarcerated polygamist s several children attended school at an institution run by VMG Zvinavashe Trust over the years, but they have not been paying.In a claim filed at the High Court recently, VMG Zvinavashe Trust wants the jailed polygamist pay an outstanding amount of $49 404 for his children in high school and $50 459 for the children in primary school.The Trust also wants Gumbura to pay interest calculated at an agreed rate of 10 percent per annum from the date of issuance of summons to the date of payment in full. VMG Zvinavashe Trust seeks an order compelling Gumbura to pay costs of the suit on a higher scale.According to the plaintiff s declaration, Gumbura entered an agreement with the Trust for the provision of education to the children for a fee. In terms of the said agreement, Gumbura was required to pay tuition fees for the children at the beginning of each school term. In breach of the said agreement, defendant (Gumbura) has failed, refused and or neglected to pay the agreed school fees since 2013. As a result, the plaintiff was impoverished by $99 863,90 being arrears in school fees plus interest owed by the defendant to the plaintiff, reads the declaration.Gumbura is yet to respond to the summons. Meanwhile, Idem Trading (Private) Limited, trading as Eurotex has filed a separate claim against Gumbura of $74 700 plus interest.According to the summons, Gumbura held a credit account with Eurotex where he would buy household furniture and other goods for his family. It is stated in the papers that Gumbura bought kitchenware, lounge and dinning suites, fish tanks, gym bikes, quad bikes, snooker table, electric generator and office furniture worth $74 700.Gumbura allegedly defaulted payment in October 2013. Despite spirited assurances by Gumbura and his wives on various occasions, Eurotex has failed to recover the money. The company was left with no other option, but to turn to the High Court for recourse.When the summons was served at Gumbura s Marlborough house in Harare, his wives refused to accept service referring the agent to Chikurubi. They wrote to the court stating their position. The writers are mature female adults who are not party to any of the alleged contracts and attending obligations between the stated parties in the summons and may not be cited as respondents in the matter in the light of the above facts. The writers are acquainted with and are known to the defendant whose current address of service, for purposes of litigation and suit, is Chikurubi Maximum Prison, situated off Arcturus Road. Writers do request and pray that all communications to defendant be directed to him at the address stated above or where plaintiff s claims may be understood or known, reads part of the letter to the High Court.