Catch them young . . . Trish flanked by her teachersShepherd Chimururi Cool Lifestyle Correspondent &#8212; The world of Information Communication and Technology (ICT) has always been gender biased with male students dominating, but Manongwa, an eight-year-old computer whiz-kid, has proved that innovation and creativity can be conquered by the girl child. She has taken the e-learning scene by storm, a feat that makes the proponents of Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) rub their hands in glee.Her exploits have not gone unnoticed as she has been appointed the e-learning brand ambassador for Dzidzo Inhaka Audio Visual Learning, an organisation that promotes child computer education. In an interview with the Cool Lifestyle, Manongwa, a product of home e-schooling who is doing Grade 3 at Frank Johnson primary school where she has become an instant tech celebrity, said she learns computers at her mother s pre-school called Sheali E-learning and ECD Centre based in Chitungwiza. Our school does not have a computer laboratory. My school mates were surprised to see my picture in The Herald recently. They came to me and told me that they had seen my picture in the newspaper before I saw it. My classmates always ask me about computers like the use of monitor, keyboard, central processing unit and how to hold a mouse. I also explain to a lot of things that a computer can do like playing music, movies or even charging a phone. My favourite softwares are Bubble Palace, the Colour Game, Pacman, Chess Game, Animal Puzzles, Paint, Tuxpaint , Leah s Farm Paint and Play. However, I like Encarta Kids more because it has educational content. I can do my Maths, English and Content and view the map of Zimbabwe, world cities and countries. I also do my Shona home work on computer using Microsoft Word before I write it in the book, she said.Manongwa who is a great fan of the cartoon series Sofia The First , said her most precious souvenir is a birthday card she designed for her mother on her birthday this year. Trish recalls her moment in the sun. My best moment was when I went for a workshop at Jameson Hotel last year that was organised by Dzidzo Inhaka. We attended a workshop with Cleopatra Mazango who was in Grade 1. We showed teachers how to hold a mouse, colour, draw and paint. Before we did presentation some teachers were saying it is not possible for a child to do colouring and drawing using computers. But after we finished all teachers clapped hands for us and they shook our hands and praised us. At workshops I enjoy showing it to other teachers because I want to inspire them to go and teach their own kids so that we can compete. I want to advise other kids to take good care of their computers at home they should not drink and eat while seated at the computers. Parents should buy computers for their children. 