JOHANNESBURG. Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane said his side got what they wanted after the first leg of the CAF Champions League final against Zamalek in Pretoria on Saturday. The South African club dismantled the Egyptians 3-0 at the Lucas Moripe Stadium after goals from Anthony Laffor, Tebogo Langerman and an Eslam Hamed own goal. Although they take a good lead to Egypt for the second leg, Mosimane admitted he did not expect such a commanding performance from his players.The coach said afterwards: What an emotional game. I don t think we should complain when we score two goals in the first half. I think we got what we wanted to score the goals, and go to Alexandria with at least something in your pocket. Not to go and fight for a goal there. For us as coaches I think the coach of Zamalek will say the same thing these teams know each other so well. OK, I didn t predict the scoreline. But the way they play, and the way we play, we know each other well. Sundowns would become only the second South African side to lift Africa s premier club competition after Orlando Pirates in 1995 if they complete the job in Alexandria.Mosimane s troops, though, will not be resting on their laurels as attention switches to the reverse fixture in Egypt, knowing that playing away in the north African country will be a difficult affair no matter their advantage.Both teams took time to find their feet in the sweltering conditions just outside the South African capital, as fans continued to filter into the stadium past the designated kick-off time of 3pm.The hosts were limited to long-range shots in the early exchanges with both Keagan Dolly and Hlompho Kekana trying their luck to no avail from distance. Thabo Nthethe notably saw his header attempt flash inches wide in the 22nd minute, as Sundowns continued to turn the screw.But, the hosts patience would finally pay off in the 31st minute as go-to-man Laffor rattled home. Kekana picked up the ball in the middle of the park and following a marauding run at goal the Sundowns captain unleashed his fellow teammate; who turned his marker before firing into the top corner of the net.With a certain William Jebor having caused the White Knights all sorts of problems in Rabat late last month, another Liberia international in Laffor did the same with the attacker a constant threat down the right flank in the proceeding minutes.Sundowns were in firm control and doubled their lead in the 40th minute. Langerman s speculative shot from range flying over Ahmed Elshenawy and into back of the net to the astonishment of both the fullback and his coach.Zamalek s best chance of the opening stanza fell to Basem Morsy on the cusp of halftime, the midfielder unlucky to see his weaving run come to nothing.At the break, all the fans had made their way into the ground with the stadium packed to the rafters with close to 30 000 people filling the stands for an unforgettable atmosphere.Inspired by the Sundowns faithful, the Brazilians came out firing after the break and made it 3-0 through Percy Tau in the 46th minute. Eslam Gamal Hamed was guilty of directing the midfielder s low shot past his own goalkeeper.Eager to grab an away goal, Zamalek pressed forward and went close in the 58th minute. Superb cover defence by Wayne Arendse denied Aly Hefny, who s shot was cleared off the line.Sundowns continued to boss the game and could have added to their tally late on, but last ditch defending on either end of the pitch kept the score at 3-0 heading into the reverse fixture.The second-leg is scheduled to take place at the Borg El Arab Stadium in Alexandria on Sunday. Supersport.com