Dr MadeElita Chikwati Agriculture ReporterA total of 19 000 tonnes of fertilisers and 12 000 tonnes of maize seed meant for the Presidential Inputs Scheme have been delivered at Grain Marketing Board depots across the country. The country is also expecting 9 000 tonnes of urea for the same programme from China.The Presidential Inputs Scheme is expected to benefit 800 000 households.Inputs for Command Agriculture will not be collected from GMB depots as farmers will either collect from suppliers or have them delivered to their farms.Agriculture Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Minister Dr Joseph Made yesterday said inputs under the Presidential Scheme have been moved to various depots across the country during the past two months. Twelve thousand tonnes of ammonium nitrate, 7 000 tonnes of compound D and 12 000 tonnes of maize seed have been delivered to GMB depots. We are waiting for 9 000 tonnes of urea from China. Coupons for collection of the Presidential Scheme are being prepared. Farmers have an option either to get 10 kilogrammes of maize seed or 5kg of small grains, he said.Dr Made said cotton inputs to cover 400 000 hectares will also be delivered.Government increased cotton inputs support from a quarter hectare last year to one hectare this season.Cotton inputs are being administered by Cottco. The Presidential Inputs Scheme constitutes the bulk of the programme in terms of supporting every household in the rural areas to ensure both household and national food security, he said.Dr Made said Command Agriculture was a special maize programme meant to reduce importation of grains and ensure strategic grain reserve at national level while the Presidential Inputs Scheme was meant to ensure household food security.In higher rainfall areas, Government has increased inputs from one bag of AN to two bags top dressing fertilisers; one bag of Compound D to double the amount and three bags of lime. We will be discussing issues concerning the livestock sector, preparing and mobilising resources. Few people applied for Command Agriculture in marginal areas such as Matabeleland South, Masvingo, parts of Midlands as they do not have sufficient land under irrigation. Command Agriculture should also include livestock in its comprehensive form beef, dairy, sheep, goats and piggery so farmers in those areas can concentrate on livestock. This is critical to the food basket. Farmers in these areas should focus on livestock production instead of grain and we have been directed to look at the livestock matter with urgency, he said.Dr Made said livestock farmers used to be supported under the Presidential Inputs Scheme some years back.He said the current livestock condition was bad because there were no pastures.The situation was made worse by veld fires that have destroyed pastures.He urged farmers to conduct proper dipping, dosing or de-worming to protect their livestock.