LONDON. Dwight Yorke believes the reason he is finding it difficult to break into management is in part down to racism in football. The former Manchester United striker says he has completed all his coaching badges, but is being stopped from even interviewing for any jobs in management. Yorke s only coaching job has been assistant manager for the Trinidad and Tobago national team and the former player explained he is being shut out from progressing in the dugout. I m still looking to get in, he told beIN Sports. I ve done all the coaching badges at St George s and the one thing I find very difficult, let alone get a job, is to even get an interview. I m finding it very, very difficult at the moment. Yes, you are doing all your coaching, all your badges, but then when it comes to getting a job, you are not even getting an sinterview. It s all about who you know as well, that has to play a role. Despite all my experience of being a player, I ve never had the experience of being a manager which is a different concept from being a coach. Yorke was then asked specifically if he believed the colour of his skin was part of the reason he was finding it difficult or could it instead be his inexperience. I think there s a bit of both there. I genuinely think there s a bit of both, said Yorke. It s often been discussed, no-one has really taken it up, but I do have a tendency when I speak to everybody, certainly black players who are trying to break into managerial departments are coming up against the same concept because of your race. You keep constantly hitting a wall, keep constantly not getting anywhere and even with all the noises that I ve made, I ve even tried to get in at Villa at this point. What I m saying is that it would have been nice to just have your thoughts heard. OK, maybe you will never get a chance to be a manager but it would be nice to go in there, present yourself, get to know that person and (have them) say, OK, Dwight, we like your concept, but you re not experienced enough.Meanwhile, Sol Campbell has confirmed he s in talks to take his first managerial job. Metro.