Herald ReporterVeteran Roman Catholic priest Father Emmanuel Ribeiro is conducting research on the seven freedom fighters who perished in the legendary Chinhoyi Battle of 1966, which is one of the highlights of the liberation struggle. Father Ribeiro made the remarks at the burial of Mrs Sophia Guzuzu mother to one of the seven heroes of the Chinhoyi battle Samuel David Guzuzu. Mrs Guzuzu died last week after a long illness and was buried at her homestead in Guruve.In an interview, Father Ribeiro said research on the famous Chinhoyi Seven would help to clear some distortions on the gallant fighters. Over the years, we have had varying narratives on the heroes of Chinhoyi. Even the names of the seven heroes have been presented differently. My research will seek to uncover the truth and attempt to give a definite narrative of these legendary fighters. I have been working on it for close to five years now, he said.Father Ribeiro paid tribute to Mrs Guzuzu saying she was a hero in her own right. She was a humble woman who remained proud of her son s achievement until her death. She was very useful in helping me with my work in compiling research of the seven heroes, he said.Addressing mourners at the funeral, Mashonaland Central Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Cde Martin Dinha pledged to assist the Guzuzu family. Gogo Guzuzu gave birth to one of the heroes of the liberation struggle whose sacrifices brought independence, but she remained a humble woman until her death. To show our appreciation to the family, my office will provide assistance to the Guzuzu family by paying school fees to the remaining family members who are attending school and also cater to the family s general upkeep, he said.Zimbabwe National Army Brigadier-General Paul Chima said Zimbabwe Defence Forces Commander General Constantino Guveya Chiwenga had committed his personal funds to construct a house for Mrs Guzuzu. I am here to represent the Commander of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces General Chiwenga, who has been using money from his own pocket to build a house for Gogo Guzuzu. It is unfortunate that she has died before the completion of the house, but our hope is that the rest of the Guzuzu family will benefit from this gesture, because construction of the house is going to be complete soon, he said.There was drama at the funeral as a spirit medium claiming to be David Guzuzu manifested revealing some of the scenes at the Chinhoyi Battle. Guzuzu reportedly left his homestead in Chinhoyi in the 1960s, but never returned home.