 US dollarsWho will police custodians of the law . . .?Court ReportersA 27-year-old police officer attached to the ZRP Protection Unit Tomlinson Depot allegedly used fake documents to obtain about $1 500 in loans from a micro-finance company at its different branches across the country. Shepherd Chiguware of PPU Diplomats Relief 3, on Friday appeared before Harare magistrate Ms Bianca Makwande facing fraud charges. He was remanded to November 30 on $100 bail. Chiguware was ordered to reside at his address pending finalisation of the matter. Prosecuting, Ms Audrey Chogumaira alleged that on May 27 this year, Chiguware was in his police uniform when he approached Yonder Rift Enterprises Harare branch. The court heard that the company is a micro-finance institution and Chiguware applied for a $250 loan.It is alleged he got the loan at a 17 percent interest rate and Chiguware gave the loan officer the required documents. The documents included a payslip, bank statement, confirmation of employment and proof of residence, passport-size photograph and a photocopy of his national identity card.They also required an EcoCash registered line for transfer of the money. It is alleged that Chiguware presented a forged payslip, bank statement and confirmation of employment.He allegedly gave the loan officer his mobile number 0776 994 904. It is alleged that the loan officer processed the loan without noticing that the documents were fake. Chiguware received $250 through his EcoCash account.The court heard that on June 7, Chiguware went to the company s Gweru branch while clad in his police uniform. Using the same trick he managed to dupe the loan officer of $110, it is alleged. Eight days later he allegedly pounced on Yonder Rift Enterprises Mutare branch and walked away with $220.The court heard that on July 9 and 27, Chiguware went to the company s Bindura and Marondera branches, where he obtained $235 and $250 respectively.On August 11, he visited the Chivhu branch and allegedly duped the loan officer of $220. Three days later, he went to Chegutu branch and walked away with $235, it is alleged. The micro loan company lost $1 520 and nothing was recovered.Lawyer swindles clientMeanwhile, A Harare lawyer, Fiona Machekeche, is accused of swindling her client of about $42 000. Machekeche (39) appeared before Harare magistrate Mr Anold Maburo facing theft of trust property charges.She is on bail. The complainant is a director of Non-Ferrous Die Casting Mr Marvin Mbazima. Prosecuting, Mrs Idah Maromo-Mateke alleged that Mbazima was selling his house, No. 1808 Salisbury Township measuring 3 121 square metres.He advertised it through Paradise Property Group Estate Agents. Blessing Tawanda was interested in buying the house and on November 21, the parties signed an agreement of sale. The purchase price was $48 000. It is alleged Mbazima engaged Machekeche as a conveyancer to handle the sale of the house .They agreed that the $48 000 was to be deposited into Machekeche s law firm s Standard Chartered Bank trust account.Nicodemusly, Machekeche instructed Tawanda to deposit the money into her personal Barclays Bank account. The court heard that Mbazima instructed Machekeche to pay the agent commission of $2 760 and Capital Gains Tax totalling $3 052.Machekeche did the conveyance and change of ownership was effected into Tawanda s name. Machekeche converted $42 187, 85 to her personal use. Mbazima made several efforts to get his money but Machekeche was evasive leading to her arrest.