Takudzwa Mandigwenya with OskidTawanda Matanhire Cool Lifestyle Reporter For many young people it is difficult to find a career path as they struggle to make decisions on what they would want their future to be associated with. It is therefore important that young people are mentored in such a way that they are able to choose their future occupations either from their upbringing at home or in schools.Parents have a job to do and play an important role in nurturing children`s careers as in the case of Takudzwa Mandigwenya (17) who is known as JM Couphy who started singing in 2009 when he in Grade Four. The teen chanter was mentored to become a musician by his father who was a session guitarists and would spend much of his time in his company.He said that he took up music at an early stage because of the influence he had from his upbringing. My father had so much influence when I chose what I wanted to do in life, JM Couphy said. I feel that I m doing what I love the most because I get to enjoy whilst I also make money, he said.From a Christian background, the father would take him along to gospel concerts where he performed copyright of local artists. It wasn t long before JM Couphy found his own path after he gatecrashed a passa passa event in his neighbourhood where most participants were into dancehall music.He would attend dancehall events where he also took part and discovered that he had a following from fans who loved his chants. The talented teen never looked back, eventually he turned into reggae dancehall in 2010.He has recorded many tracks and also worked with a number of producers singing about social issues affecting people, especially the youths. Among some of the songs that were played on local radio stations was Don t Judge Me which was recorded by DJ Choppa. Recently he released Nyama Yekugocha which was recorded by TJ.He has also featured on the latest Six Finger Riddim where he featured K Squad on the track Maboss as well as Hidden Script Riddim which features the likes of Taurai Mandebvu and Shinsoman among others. He recently took part in the Zvidavado Festival in High Glen where he attracted a huge following of fans, which for him was an endorsement into the reggae music fraternity. The recent performance at Zvidavado Festival was a great deal, fans loved my music and my style which was actually an endorsement into the mainstream reggae music fraternity, JM Couphy said. The teen artist has also been associated with United Kingdom based, Torro Entertainment, who have organised weekend shows at Kambuzuma Council Hall formerly known as Garden Party.This has seen him perform alongside known artists like Tocky Vibes,Jah Bless,Ras Pompey among others every Saturday. He also took part in the Ghetto Vs Ghetto contest were he was popular. JM Couphy said he would want to venture into the international scene in the near future and also wishes to do collaborations with international artists like Alkaline and Charley Blakes.JM Couphy is proud that he chose music as a career and it is bringing fulfilment in his life.