ZANU-PF Women s League Secretary for information Cde Thokozile Mathuthu(centre) standing in for Secretary for Women Affairs First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe addresses delegates, while flanked by the League s Secretary for the Commissariat Cde Mabel Chinomona(right) and Harare Province Chairwoman Cde Joyce Kasinamunda (left) at the induction workshop for Harare provincial Executive Council members held in Harare yesterday. (Picture by Kudakwashe Hunda)Tendai Mugabe: Herald ReporterThe zanu-pf Women s League yesterday held an induction workshop for its provincial leaders in Harare Province aimed at equipping them with administrative skills and knowledge for effective performance. The league s secretary for information and publicity Cde Thokozile Mathuthu, read the opening speech on behalf of the deputy secretary Cde Eunice Sandi-Moyo. In her remarks, Cde Sandi-Moyo called for unity of purpose adding that women together with the youths were the vanguard of the revolutionary party. A conflict ridden Women s League would not be able to deliver results for the electorate and will not constitute a winning team as it would be a divided team, she said.Unity is a lethal weapon against our enemies. We should remember that women are the vanguard of the party, the main pillar of support and sustain our revolutionary party. We are the critical mass that keeps the party strong. This critical mass is a fertile ground for mobilisation and indeed makes the League an effective mobilisation machinery as we cast our attention on 2018. Cde Sandi-Moyo said the workshop that was held under the theme empowering women for effective performance fitted within the context of Zim-Asset as the party prepares for 2018 elections. Our mandate is to provide services to our clients, she said. That is the surest way to remain connected to the people at the grassroots and show them that their vote was not in vain. The electorate expects from you nothing short of development and good leadership. Our rallying message should therefore be women for results. Lands and Rural Resettlement Deputy Minister Cde Berita Chikwama, who also attended the workshop, explained that women could also apply for land in their individual capacities. In cases where land was owned by a couple, Cde Chikwama said in the event of divorce, the land should be equally shared between the husband and the wife.The party s Women s League chairperson for Harare Province Cde Joyce Kasindemunda said: In 2018 we want 50-50 representation. In Harare we also want land so that we can contribute meaningfully to the party and the nation. The workshop covered a wide range of issues such as party administrative systems, organising and managing party rallies, conflict resolution, management and general overview of the party constitution among others.The Harare workshop was the seventh in as many induction meetings held by the league across the country.