Innocent Ruwende Municipal Reporter Government has ordered local authorities operating without substantive heads of department to fill in all critical vacant posts and to consult their parent ministry before making such appointments to avoid clashes on policy issues. Speaking at the Local Government Investment Conference held in Victoria Falls recently, Local Government, Public Works and National Housing permanent secretary Eng George Mlilo said councils should appoint substantive individuals as investors wanted to deal with permanent heads of department, especially for long-term deals. We have many cities and towns with people who have been acting for too long. You should appoint permanent people. Harare is the capital city. We expect a lot from it. You should appoint a town clerk and, you should consult the ministry before hiring anyone. How can you be a mayor without a town clerk? he quizzed. Acting positions should cease in councils. The Local Government Board is there for you. People should not create unnecessary problems. How can Marondera send their town clerk on forced leave without any tangible reason? I am ordering you to go back and reverse that decision and let the young man work. Eng Milo said residents must have confidence in councillors and officials. He said he was disturbed by developments in Zvishavane where the town chairperson was allegedly doing his own things without council resolutions. Mutare, you cannot advertise the post of town clerk and go for ages without filling the post. We expect you to resolve the issue. Lupane, you know your officer was reaching retirement but you did not take steps to find a replacement. Gweru, it s unfortunate that happenings in your city (alleged corruption) forced Government to take action (appointment of caretaker council). We expect every city to have a prospectus. I know in Harare several people purporting to have been sent by senior Government officials come and ask for favours. Ignore them. We want transparency in local authorities. Do not bring your friends to do business with the city. Let us be above board, said Eng Mlilo.He said councils should hire people with proven track records and not individuals fired in other councils for corruption. On local authorities budgets, Eng Mlilo said they must reflect the 70:30 ratio in favour of delivery of services. I am not accepting even 30,5 percent. We have local authorities, which are going for nine months without their budgets being approved. This behaviour must stop. 