Rory McIlroySHANGHAI. Rory McIlroy hinted yesterday that his Rio Olympic snub may not have been entirely due to fears over the Zika virus, saying his situation was a little more complicated than others. The world number three golfer from Holywood, Northern Ireland, also said he hadn t turned any thoughts yet to taking part in Tokyo 2020, adding that he would instead concentrate on the 16 majors that we have between now and then . On the eve of Asia s Major , the $9.5-million World Golf Championships-HSBC Champions tournament in Shanghai, McIlroy was asked if he would like to play in Asia s Olympics Tokyo 2020. The participation in the Olympics, for me it s just a little more complicated than for some other people, (because of) where I m from and the whole politics of the thing, McIlroy told a news conference.He was referring to having to choose whether to represent Great Britain or the Republic of Ireland at the Games, a highly sensitive topic. Before pulling out ahead of the Rio Games, McIlroy had come under fire from some quarters in Northern Ireland for originally opting to compete under Ireland s tricolour. It s a difficult subject for me, he admitted before acknowledging that the sport s first appearance in the Games for more than 100 years had been a success despite his own initial reservations.McIlroy had given a blunt assessment of Olympic golf before the Rio Games, saying he probably would not even watch it on TV. Probably (I ll watch) the events like track and field, swimming, diving, the stuff that matters, he had said.But McIlroy revealed he had tuned in after all, and was delighted by what unfolded as his Ryder Cup teammates Justin Rose and Henrik Stenson went head-to-head right to the last putt on the final green. I was really happy with how golf went in the Olympics. I turned it on in the final afternoon and . . . you could sense an atmosphere in the crowd. It was fantastic for golf, and to have two of our best players in the world battling it out for a gold medal, it was great for the game. I was delighted by how well it went and honestly, I was happy to be watching on TV. McIlroy got a taste of what he had missed out on at the Sheshan International Golf Club course yesterday as he entered the media centre for a press conference, Stenson was leaving, clutching his gleaming Olympic silver medal. But McIlroy still would not commit to going to Tokyo. Not yet anyway. Four years time is a long way away, so we ll see what happens, said the four-time major winner.Meanwhile, McIlroy believes he needs to win at least one of his next three events to become only the second man to win both the FedEx Cup and Race to Dubai title in the same season.Reigning Open champion Henrik Stenson achieved this feat in 2013 and McIlroy is hoping to emulate his Ryder Cup team-mate. The world No. 3 is looking to win the Race to Dubai for a third year in a row and fourth time in five years but currently trails Danny Willett by more than one million points.Willett heads the table from Stenson, with all three teeing-up at this week s WGC-HSBC Champions event in China which features 40 of the world s top 50 players. In his chase to win both Tour order of merit titles, the 27-year-old McIlroy said: It would be great to get the double. I ve got three tournaments left to try to do that. I ve got a lot of ground to make up as well. Danny has had a great season, so has Henrik, so I know what I need to do in the last three weeks. I probably need at least one win, hopefully two, and hopefully those boys not to play as good as they have been. I know I ve got a lot to do but hopefully I can play well enough and at least give myself a chance. As for his chances at Sheshan International in Shanghai, the Northern Irishman added: I wanted to come into these weeks feeling fresh and feeling ready to go. I m sure there will be a little bit of rust in there that I will need to work off but, the last few times I ve played, I ve played very well and there s no reason why I shouldn t be able to keep up that run of form this week and hopefully to the end of the season. It s my sixth time in Shanghai and I ve played well here but not quite well enough to win. Hopefully I can change that this week. I feel like I m playing well enough and that I ve showed enough good form around this golf course in the past to be confident that I can give myself a chance this week. AFP.