Herald ReporterTHE Employers Confederation of Zimbabwe (EMCOZ), which contributes 100 percent to the Zimbabwe Manpower Development Fund (ZIMDEF) for human capital development, yesterday said its contributions must only benefit students and colleges and not Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister Professor Jonathan Moyo and his deputy Dr Godfrey Gandawa.The pair reportedly abused nearly $500 000 from the fund, while Prof Moyo has since admitted to abusing the money.EMCOZ said it was following the matter with keen interest. Employers pay one percent of their payroll every month to fund human capital development for the economy, EMCOZ said. It is accepted that the Minister, as Trustee, has wide discretion in how the Fund will be used. It makes sad reading, though, when newspapers publish stories of alleged corruption and misuse of funds at the Fund against the background of companies folding as a result of garnishees resulting from lack of capacity to meet the regulatory requirement of paying ZIMDEF dues. ALSO SEE Carry your crosses, Moyo tells looters The Constitution is Zim s supreme law Prof Moyo under fire over Robin Hood Acting President springs to Moyo s defence EMCOZ said it was outraged and dismayed by some reckless responses Prof Moyo was giving to the media. Employers are distraught and have required that EMCOZ should follow the developments with intense interest and depending on the outcome of investigations taking place, consult on options available as the way forward, reads the statement. Corruption is a serious cancer working against the achievement of the goals of Zim-Asset. The issues raised by the (Zimbabwe) Anti-Corruption Commission are of great concern to our membership and, by extension, to the entire investing community. Emcoz said the attack on Zacc by some senior Government officials was unwarranted. We are concerned that a legal institution like the Anti-Corruption Commission is vulnerable to attack by the very institutions which are sworn to protect it, the employers said. This could be interpreted locally and internationally as interference with the course of justice which significantly affects the attitude of investors. We call on the re-establishment of communication between the Fund, the Trustee and the funders through the National Manpower Advisory Council, as has always been the case in the past. ZIMDEF as a public institution must apply the funds for the purpose for which it was established and it should not be allowed to operate outside its mandate. According to information at hand, $95 800 was transferred from Zimdef to Wishbone Trading through CABS.Dr Gandawa received $20 000 through his personal Barclays account after which he transferred $19 030 to HIB Rajput PL T/A Ace Cycles Dr Gandawa then transferred $27 550 to SKM Motorcycles for 10 tri-cycles for Prof Moyo and the balance was withdrawn in cash.It also now public knowledge that $107 525 was transferred from ZIMDEF to Fuzzy Technologies NMB Bank account, of which $5 745 was transferred to Pridham Investments for Dr Gandawa s personal furniture.Dr Gandawa also paid for 69 bicycles worth $7 260 for Prof Moyo.He also transferred $12 900 to Wisebone Trading as capital to finance his personal business and the remainder was withdrawn in cash.The documents further indicate that the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission is investigating a separate case in which Prof Moyo and Dr Gandawa are suspected of getting ZIMDEF to release 100 000 litres of diesel worth $118 500, fuel which was then diverted to the black market.It is alleged the fuel was requested by the Zimbabwe Youth Council on July 26 for a skills gap assessment programme Dr Gandawa recommended the allocation and Prof Moyo gave his approval on August 4, 2016.Prof Moyo, Dr Gandawa, Zimdef chief executive Mr Frederick Mandizvidza and ZIMDEF principal director (finance) Mr Nicholas Mapute could have unlawfully benefited from $430 000 of the State enterprise s money between November 2015 and June 2016, documents show.ZACC is investigating other alleged abuses of ZIMDEF funds by Prof Moyo, his deputy, and three subordinates.