Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports ReporterDYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa believes his Glamour Boys will be the underdogs when they clash with their biggest rivals CAPS United in the Harare Derby at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. Although DeMbare are keen on regaining the bragging rights, the former midfielder yesterday said the Green Machine, who top the table with four games remaining in the season, had been the better team this year.Dynamos are out of the race but are back on the spotlight as they stand in the way of Makepekepe s quest to lift their first title in 11 years.The Glamour Boys are believed to be closer to engaging former Botswana coach, David Bright, as their head coach for next season in a technical set-up that will see Mutasa reverting to assistant coach.Murape Murape, it is understood, will also be kept as the assistant coach.Sources said Bright arrived in Harare this week and was briefed by Murape about the history of the Glamour Boys and the challenges they face.CAPS United have been unconquerable at the National Sports Stadium where they have not lost a league match this year.They beat Dynamos 1-0 in the first leg at Rufaro to end a seven-year jinx.Mutasa told reporters that Derbies are unpredictable. I am sure we are going there as underdogs, according to the scenario we find ourselves today. But in terms of motivation, you know with derbies everyone wants to be involved. If you look at the way the youngsters and the senior players were responding to training from day one, it s an indication that everyone really wants to play in this derby. It s something that we normally don t see week in week out. You know names have been made in such platforms and this game is not an exception. But if performance up to this date is anything to go by, probably the scales will tilt in CAPS United s favour. However, football being a practical game you can only be judged by what you do on Sunday. The good thing is that we have seen the desire of the majority of the youngsters this week that they want to be part and parcel of the players to represent the blue-and-white family. That is a positive sign for us. DeMbare continued with their preparations at Motor Action Sports Club yesterday where most of the senior players like Rodreck Mutuma, Stephen Alimenda, Denver Mukamba, Sydney Linyama, Dominic Mukandi, Masimba Mambare, Ocean Mushure and Godknows Murwira featured prominently.But defender Elisha Muroiwa is still out injured while Warriors teammate Tatenda Mukuruva, who missed last week s 1-1 draw with Hwange, also remains a big doubt for the second consecutive match.Mukuruva skipped training yesterday to attend the Limpopogate trial at the magistrates court where he was expected to testify as a State witness.Most of the senior players who were rested last week are also expected to reclaim their places in the starting line-up.Mutasa said the absence of CAPS United veteran forward Leonard Tsipa and speedy winger Phineas Bamusi through suspension should not blind his side of the huge task ahead.Tsipa is currently the league s top scorer with 10 goals while Bamusi has been instrumental down the wings in the Green Machine campaign. I think Leonard has done well as a veteran player. But I wouldn t want to talk much about CAPS United missing Tsipa or Bamusi. They have won matches without other key players before. In football you have to remember that some players got to make names after getting chances like these. So those ones are sometimes more dangerous than the ones you know. But without taking anything from them, I would want to salute CAPS United. They have done well up to this stage. To me they are probably the most consistent team in the league, hence they are on top of the log. It s not by mistake. I think (CAPS United coach) Lloyd (Chitembwe) from the onset showed his intent and has worked hard. But now this is a derby, said Mutasa.FixturesTomorrow: Mutare City v Border Strikers (Sakubva), Chicken Inn v ZPC Kariba (White City), Tsholotsho v Chapungu (Luveve), FC Platinum v Ngezi Platinum (Mandava)Sunday: Hwange v Harare City (Colliery), Triangle v How Mine (Gibbo), Highlanders v Bulawayo City (BF), CAPS United v Dynamos (NSS)