From George Maponga in CHIVIFIRST Lady Dr Grace Mugabe has donated tracksuits to over 350 pupils at Dzingirai Primary School in Chivi South worth thousands of dollars. The tracksuits were handed over to the children by Chivi Rural District Council chairperson and philanthropist Dr Killer Zivhu, who is also spearheading construction of two classroom blocks at the school worth $50 000.Pupils at the schools learn in makeshift grass thatched structures.The school was established in 2010.It is located in Nyahombe Resettlement area. Speaking during the handover of tracksuits donated by the First Lady, Dr Zivhu applauded Dr Mugabe for assisting the under-privileged in Chivi. We are blessed and lucky that we have a person in the mould of the First Lady, who has the welfare of underprivileged children at heart.The First Lady deserves special praise because she continues to show that she will always be there for children in every part of this country, especially those in remote rural areas like here at Nyahombe.. Dr Mugabe is an exemplary mother who has got under-privileged children at heart and I think other leaders should emulate her good work and also start doing something for children from remote poor backgrounds, he said.Dr Zivhu, who is also the Zanu-PF Masvingo provincial secretary for finance, appealed to well-wishers to assist with both financial and material resources to make sure infrastructure at Dzingirai Primary School was modernised. We are appealing to donors and well-wishers to assist so that the grass-thatched classrooms here are replaced with modern buildings for these children to have a decent place to learn. The children are the future of our country and we must always assist them, he said. My appeal to other leaders here in Chivi and the entire Masvingo Province is that please stop expending energy on rumour-mongering and back stabbing each other and spearhead programmes and projects that improve the lives of ordinary people especially poor people from remote rural areas. The school headmaster Mr Silas Makomo said lessons were stopped every time it rained because of the poor state of infrastructure at the school. We are very grateful with what Dr Zivhu is doing here because once the two new classroom blocks are build, that will ease the shortage of learning space, he said.