NO THROUGH ROAD . . . FC Platinum defender Gift Bello (left) tries to block Triangle s Lameck Nhamo during yesterday s match at Gibbo. (Picture by Paul Mundandi)From Paul Mundandi in Triangle Triangle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0FC Platinum . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0) 1 AFTER some years in the wilderness, Makai Jecha Kawashu rose from the bench yesterday to fire home the winner as FC Platinum made it three wins over Triangle with yesterday s win in the Chibuku Super Cup helping the miners edge closer to a dream double.Kawashu scored the goal that made the difference in the 77th minute.Pure Platinum Play, winners of the Chibuku Cup in 2014 are poised for a double if they manage to go past the semi-final stage.The former Monomotapa man repaid the faith shown in him by Norman Mapeza who signed him during the mid-season transfer window.Kawashu was plying his trade in Botswana but since joining FC Platinum he had played five games without finding the target. I am excited to have found the target after five games of trying. My wife was even complaining last Thursday saying that it was high time I started scoring. I dedicate the goal to Helena my wife who has been very supportive. I had pressure to score. I would also want to thank my coach for showing faith in me and the Platinum fans. It has been difficult but I believed in God that one day I would score and it happened this afternoon Kawashu saidFellow striker Charles Sibanda won the ball on the left and left the Triangle defenders for dead before crossing the ball into the path of Kawashu who easily slotted the ball past a badly exposed Ronald Mudimu.FC Platinum played a passing game and their coach felt hard done when they were denied what looked like a penalty when Rodwell Chinyengetere was felled in the box but referee Norman Matemera waved away the appeal.Triangle also had their effort disallowed in the 61st minute for handball.Malvern Gaki had the ball at the back of the nets after beating Petros Mhari.Gaki had latched on to a clearance by Kelvin Moyo but before he buried the effort home he had handled.FC Platinum continued to show the dominance over the Sugar Sugar Boys.In their first meeting in the league they won 2-0 at Mandava before defeating Triangle 2-1 in the reverse fixture at Gibbo.Yesterday was the third meeting between the two sides this year and it was Mapeza who was smiling once again. FC Platinum had grafters in his midfield which was well orchestrated by Winston Mhango, Gerald Takwara, Rodwell Chinyengetere and Walter Musona.The experienced Gift Bello, Ian Nekati and Kelvin Moyo were water tight in defence and they thwarted all the efforts veteran coach, David Yogi Mandigora s men had for the miners.Earlier on the visitors could have taken the lead in the ninth minute when Chinyengetere dribbled past the entire Triangle defence including veteran Guthrie Zhokinyu, found himself in the six yard box but he took long to shoot at goal allowing Hardlife Muvundi to clear.Triangle could yet have surged ahead after 32 minutes but Gaki failed to connect a cross from Courage Denias with goalkeeper Mhari at his mercy. I wish if Kawashu could continue were he left from today. It s normal in the whole world to have pressure. Any sport has pressure even on the teams that are in the relegation zone there is pressure. We need to maintain consistency and see what happens at the end of the season. I am happy for the boys because they worked so hard. We came here looking for a positive result and to proceed to the next round said Mapeza.TeamsTriangle: R Mudimu, K Chigwida, T Mapungwana, D Chirambamuriwo (L Nhamo 73rd ), M Mukumba (T Dephistard 86th minute ),H Muvundi, C Denias, D Phiri, R Kawondera, M Gaki, G ZhokinyiFC Platinum: P Mhari, G Bello, I Nekati, K Moyo, Sitima, W Mhango, G Takwara, W Musona, C Sibanda, R Chinyengetere (N Masuku 89th minute )T Rukanda (M Kawashu 46th minute ).