Christopher Farai Charamba CorrespondentEver since the appointment of Vice Presidents Emmerson Mnangagwa and Phelekezela Mphoko to their posts in December 2014, there have been periodic attempts by various quarters to undermine their authority. The incidents involving Sarah Mahoka and Mandi Chimene at Zanu-PF headquarters immediately come to mind. Where the two women ,on separate occasions, accused VP Mnangagwa of factionalism and all but called for President Mugabe to fire him on the spot.Another rumour floating around and even making its way into the media was that the Zanu-PF Women s League led by the First Lady Dr Grace Mugabe was in favour of the removal of one of the Vice Presidents in favour of a female Vice President.This came after the Women s League put forward a resolution during the 15thAnnual National People s Conference in Victoria Falls last year to push for the amendment of the revolutionary party s constitution to allow for the appointment of a female Vice President. They wanted Article 7 (1) (b) of the ruling party s constitution amended to reinstate a previous provision that one of the two VPs and Second Secretary should be a woman.The Zanu-PF Secretary for Women s Affairs Dr Mugabe cleared up these issues last week at the Women s League National Assembly meeting in Harare when she said; Your Excellency, just to put the record straight, our resolution was misunderstood and misinterpreted. The resolution was never meant to dispense with anyone. On this note, I wish to assure ubaba uVice Presidents and Second Secretary, Cdes Mnangagwa and Mphoko that you have our full support. The issue of factionalism has been rife in the revolutionary party, certainly since the ousting of former Vice President Joice Mujuru. Now it is alleged that there are factions known as Lacoste and G40. The former is said to be led by VP Mnangagwa and the latter reportedly championing the cause of the First Lady.It is against this backdrop that when the Women s League resolution was tabled, rumours of a move against VP Mnangagwa sprouted.The statement from the Secretary for Women s Affairs has now quashed those rumours. It is clear that the Women s League wishes only to seek for representation and the empowerment of women within the party and the wider political spectrum.The resolution was not set out to target anyone but rather to advocate the advancement of women. One would in fact describe it as affirmative action and their appeal is a valid one.In a political system that is widely patriarchal it is important for there to be female representation at such high levels if there is to be any strong voice for the cause of Zimbabwean women.Dr Mugabe in her address would state; It is gratifying to note that amongst our National Assembly members are women, whom you (President Mugabe) elevated to positions of decision-making both in the party and Government, to promote gender equity as well as to dilute the male-dominated political space. She would also call on the private sector to move towards attaining 50:50 gender representation at all institutional levels as the constitutional obligation equally applies to them. It is clear from this that the agenda of the Women s League is about ensuring that women are equally and adequately represented in all spheres of society, social, economic and political.One sure way to ensure that their concerns are heard and the representation accorded is to be vocal. Unfortunately, some choose to then label them ambitious and calculating when they voice their expectations.At no stage did the Women s League actually call for the removal of any of the vice presidents. But those with an agenda saw the tabling of that resolution as an opportune moment to further their factional agenda which seems geared to divide and destroy Zanu-PF.Despite what many might think, it is clear that there are no factional connotations or underpinnings to the resolution passed by the Women s League.It is well within their right as the Women s League for them to table resolutions that look at their interests. As one Shona proverb states, mwana asingacheme anofira mumbereko. This however, should not be taken as a move against of the Vice Presidents.This has been echoed by the provinces who have applauded the clarification of the resolution in Victoria Falls.As Harare Provincial Chairperson Cde Charles Tawengwa said, the statement by the First Lady, lays to rest all the speculation that one of the VPs was going to be removed from office. It s you the newspapers who were writing about this saying so and so is going to be removed. The First Lady has come out in the open and clarified the issue and I think this is a welcome development for the party. But as Midlands deputy chair Cde Daniel Mackenzie Ncube also pointed out, some of the misinterpretations on that resolution were bent on sowing divisions in the ruling party by certain individuals.It is clear that there is a divisive agenda by elements within Zanu-PF which goes against the unity that President Mugabe has repeatedly called for. In the coming year, as Zanu-PF moves towards the 2018 harmonised elections, it is important that the party preserves its unity.As Jesus stated in the Gospel of Mark, a house divided against itself will not stand. This is why unity is vital not only to the success of Zanu-PF at election time but also in terms of implementing the policies it has tabled and is mandated to carry out.President Mugabe was elected at the 2014 Congress to be the leader of Zanu-PF as First Secretary and he appointed the Second Secretaries to assist him in carrying out his duties. All members of Zanu-PF should therefore respect his decision and carry out the roles that they have been assigned, appointed or elected to until such a time when they can constitutionally make changes.Why must there be clandestine attempts at usurping power from individuals? Does Zanu-PF not have a constitution? Those with factional bones or who seem not to be happy with any appointments made by the party s First Secretary must either find a constitutional way of voicing their disagreements or vote with their feet and leave the party.What is clear is that until otherwise stated by he who appoints, the Vice Presidents until the next election will be Cdes Emmerson Mnangagwa and Phelekezela Mphoko.