Heath StreakEddie Chikamhi : Senior Sports ReporterNEW Zimbabwe cricket team coach Heath Streak is aiming for something special on his first assignment in charge of the Chevrons as he leads the side in a milestone 100th Test match this morning against a confident Sri Lanka team at the Harare Sports Club. Streak was named successor to Dav Whatmore two weeks ago and his arrival was greeted with excitement and a wave of expectation, for a side that has struggled a lot particularly in the long format.Addressing the media yesterday, the former Zimbabwe captain said he is looking forward to a fine take-off to his career with the Chevrons especially as they celebrate reaching a century of matches in the 24 years since they gained Test status. It will be a nice stat, being the 100th Test match. Yeah the possibility of a 100th cap is certainly on the cards for tomorrow (today). So, that will be something special and hopefully something that will be made more special if we can go out there and really put a good show and come up with a victory, said Streak. The guys are excited, they are hungry to get back on the park. I think we haven t played enough Test cricket. It s probably one pitfall that Zimbabwe has; not enough Test cricket. That s why we have enjoyed having some long format cricket leading into this series. I am hopeful that will stand us in good stead. I know the guys are chomping at the bat. A couple of the guys who scored centuries in that New Zealand series have to pick up and carry on that form. There are a couple other guys who want to showcase that they deserve to be in the team. We have some youngsters who are pushing really hard. So we have got good competition for positions. Zimbabwe will be looking to register their first win over the Asian tourists in Test cricket.The sides have met 15 times in the past with Sri Lanka winning 10 times while five matches ended in draws. But Streak wants his players to play with positivity and determination. Zimbabwe selectors have named a 15 member squad with Hamilton Masakadza, Tino Mawoyo, Craig Ervine and Sean Williams forming the core.But there are exciting prospects like Peter Moor who has made a strong case for himself as a useful wicketkeeper/batsman and the uncapped duo of Carl Mumba and Tarisai Musakanda. Seamer Chris Mpofu has returned to the fold after a five year absence and is expected to lead the Zimbabwe attack.The Chevrons, however, will be looking to put behind themselves the disappointment in their last series against New Zealand which they lost 2-0 at home in August. We want to go out there and win. We may risk losing but playing with that sort of intent, in pursuit of victory. So that s what I want to see; and the energy, playing with a little bit more of an aggressive brand of cricket. Aggressive in the way we go out, not that they just come out and play aggressive shots and stuff but this is just in terms of our approach, said Streak.Zimbabwe miss two key players Tendai Chatara and Tinashe Panyangara through injuries. But the injury burden is even heavier on the opponents.Sri Lanka were forced to leave behind their captain Angelo Matthews and vice-captain Dinesh Chandimal through injuries. Nuwan Pradeep, sidelined by a recurring hamstring injury, and Dushmantha Chameera, who is struggling with a back problem were also overlooked by the selectors. We are no under illusion. They (Sri Lanka) are a good side even without the likes of Angelo Mathews and with a few young guys (having been selected). They have just come off the high of beating Australia at home. So they will be confident. But they lack a little bit of experience that they had back home in terms of conditions and also personnel so we have got to try and make the best of that. We respect them but we believe we also have the resources to challenge them in our own backyard and win. We have got a Test squad of 15 whom we believe can score the runs and take the wickets necessary to win a game. If they give us that opportunity we will try and grab it with both hands, said Streak.Sri Lanka set off for the tour in high spirits following the 3-0 whitewash of Australia in a home series two months ago. Their stand-in skipper Rangana Herath said Zimbabwe will be new experience for his young squad. Beating the number one team gave us more confidence. Hopefully we will match that performance in this series as well. It s unfortunate that we lost our captain and vice-captain. So that s a kind of a big loss for us but we still have a balanced squad with some experience and some youngsters who have experience playing domestic cricket. That s our team at the moment. But I have played a lot of cricket so I can use that experience with the youngsters. Hopefully they will play their best game. This is a kind of a new challenge, a new opportunity and hopefully the guys will get their opportunity and do what they can do, said Herath.Zimbabwe and Sri Lanka last played a Test series 12 years ago which the tourists won 2-0 at Queens Sports Club.Zimbabwe Test squad:Graeme Cremer (capt), Regis Chakabva (wk), Brian Chari, Michael Chinouya, Craig Ervine, Hamilton Masakadza, Tino Mawoyo, Peter Moor (wk), Chris Mpofu, Carl Mumba, Tarisai Musakanda, Taurai Muzarabani, Sikandar Raza, Donald Tiripano, Malcolm Waller, Sean Williams.Sri Lanka Test squad:Rangana Herath (capt), Dhananjaya de Silva, Niroshan Dickwella (wk), Lahiru Gamage, Asela Gunaratne, Dimuth Karunaratne, Lahiru Kumara, Suranga Lakmal, Kasun Madushanka, Kusal Mendis, Dilruwan Perera, Kusal Perera (wk), Lakshan Sandakan, Kaushal Silva.