Business ReporterEconet Wireless Zimbabwe s EcoSure has unveiled a funeral package called Thwala Sonke which allows existing and potential policy holders to cover their immediate and extended family members directly from their mobile phones. In this case Thwala Sonke means carry them all . All dependants will be on the same package as the principal member with premiums paid per head. We have made sure that premium payments are convenient through the use of our mobile money solution, EcoCash. EcoSure has opened up various payment channels including sponsored premium payments on behalf of registered policyholders simply from the mobile phone, said EcoSure managing director George Nyashanu. Losing a loved one is hard, EcoSure Funeral Cover is here to ease the burden and make our customers and their loved ones covered, all conveniently done on one s mobile phone 24 /7, he said.EcoSure allows customers to access affordable funeral assurance packages with premiums ranging from $0,50 to $5 per month with pay outs ranging from $500 to $5 000 depending on the plan assured.Since its ground breaking launch in December 2014, EcoSure has transformed communities with more than one million previously under-insured Zimbabweans who now have funeral insurance.EcoSure has gone a step further by introducing a package which accommodates burial societies and family groups. Corporates and SMEs have also signed up for the benefit of their employees. The greatest value proposition being the affordable premiums, simple and accessible EcoSure services and packages. In designing Thwala Sonke we recognise that some of our customers have several dependants which may include their spouse, children, parents and in-law parents, grandparents (below 70 years on registration) and adopted children. In fact the list is daunting if we look at the African family set up. With EcoSure Thwala Sonke, we therefore give our customers peace of mind knowing that their dependants are covered, said Econet Wireless chief executive Douglas Mboweni.A fortnight ago Econet Wireless Zimbabwe s Ecocash announced its money transfer deal with the growing international remittance provider in the region, Mukuru.This partnership between Mukuru, a key player in the South African remittances space and Ecocash marked an important milestone set to bring significant benefits to companies, customers and the Zimbabwean economy.The partnership was facilitated and structured by Cassava, a wholly-owned financial technology subsidiary of the Econet Group, and is designed to further consolidate Ecocash market leadership position and injecting the much needed liquidity into the Zimbabwe economy through inward remittances.