JOHANNESBURG. Bafana Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba says that it is high time that South African clubs take CAF competitions seriously after Mamelodi Sundowns were crowned African soccer champions. On Sunday, Sundowns held onto a healthy first-leg lead against Zamalek to ensure they return to South Africa with their first official African star. The Brazilians frustrated the Egyptian giants throughout the 90 minutes despite Stanley Ohawuchi offering the 60 000 crowd some hope with a goal in the 65th minute.However, it was not to be as Pitso Mosimane become the first South African coach to lift the CAF Champions League. This is good for Africa, not only for South Africa, Mashaba said as quoted by KickOff. The last (South African) team to win this was Orlando Pirates in 1995. We now need to keep consistency (in winning). It s high time that our clubs at home take this tournament very seriously. You will remember when Pirates won the star in 1995, in 1996 we went on to win the African Cup of Nations. If you look at the number of Pirates players in the national team then, it rubbed off and it went well. But I would like to say to Mamelodi Sundowns players, they did well and showed character. They might have lost, but it is a job well done. To Pitso Mosimane and his technical team, they did very well. The president of the team too (Patrice Motsepe), the support that he gives them . . . what he is doing, will never go unnoticed. You can see now that supporting this team, it s worth it. Mashaba travelled to Egypt to support the Pretoria side on their quest to become the first South African side in 20 years to claim glory in a CAF competition.Sundowns will now participate in the FIFA World Club Cup in December and could face the likes of Spanish giants, Real Madrid.Meanwhile, Mamelodi Sundowns coach Mosimane reveals that their is no sweeter victory than winning the CAF Champions League in Egypt.Mosimane s charges entered the second-leg with a 3-0 lead over a determined Zamalek at the Borg El Arab Stadium.A 60 000 strong crowd made conditions worse for the traveling party as laser beams and negative remarks from the home fans were used to make life uncomfortable for the Brazilians. Downs goalkeeper Dennis Onyango was stretchered off in the first-half after receiving medical attention and was replaced by veteran, Wayne Sandilands for rest of the encounter.Sundowns game plan worked well up until the 65th minute as Zamalek broke the deadlock through a thunderous 25-yard strike from Ohawuchi.The Egyptian giants were probing for a second goal, but Sundowns remained stubborn in the dying moments of the game as Sandilands put in a few good saves to secure the Pretoria side s first African star. We have to respect Zamalek they re a big team, and to come to Egypt and raise the trophy here . . . there s no sweeter way to lift the trophy, Mosimane told reporters after the game as quoted by KickOff. It s undisputable . . . we played here, and we lifted it here. So we really deserve to lift the trophy, and it was a good game. It was difficult to play in front of the White Knight supporters it was the first time we had ever faced such a big crowd. But I instructed my players before the game to go out and walk on the pitch, as if they stayed in the dressing room, they would get a shock when they came out. So we dealt well with that. I m proud of my boys, playing for the first time in front of such a big crowd . . . and we won the trophy. The Brazilians will return to South Africa tomorrow. Kickoff.com