Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports ReporterPAUL Goredema will return to the big stage for the first time in two years when he contests in the Mr Zimbabwe competition at Harare International School this evening Goredema, who is now weighing 103kg will compete in the over 95kg category.Having won the Mr Bogsburg in South Africa in August, the heavily-built athlete is hopeful he will do well again. I am in good shape and I am looking forward to the competition as I have prepared for it. I have been working hard for the past two months and I think I will do well. Returning to the competition is good for me as I had taken a long break. My win in South Africa was a motivator and I look forward to the event. I know there will be stiff competition as everyone has prepared for the big occasion. This is an opportunity to showcase what I have worked for in the past months. I saw it fit to return to the stage and would like to do well after I became a junior back in 2009, Goredema said.This year s event is being organised by the National Federation of Zimbabwe Bodybuilding and Fitness in conjunction with Texas Meats.The organisers are hoping to surpass last year s standards.NFZBBF spokesperson Quiet Shangai said they were ready for the day and that the association was eager to stage a memorable event. We are expecting at least 150 athletes to take to the stage this time around and we have been running around to make sure that the event is a success. We are ready and all is set for the event. It s the biggest event on our calendar and I think we have done our best to make it memorable for both competitors and spectators, he said.Group A DivisionsChildren s fitness U-19 boys and girls, Junior men physique Under-23, Junior women bikini Under-23, Wheelchair men bodybuilding, Women beach bikini, Masters women bikini fitness over 35 years, Junior men bodybuilding including 19 years, Masters men bodybuilding.Group B DivisionsJunior men bodybuilding Under-23, Men fitness, Men s physique including 178cm, Mens physique Senior men bodybuilding up to including 65 kgs, Senior men bodybuilding up to including 75 kgs, women physique, Senior men bodybuilding up to including 85 kgs, senior men bodybuilding over 85kgs, Women body fitness.