Fungai Lupande: Court ReporterA bogus neighbourhood watch committee officer who raped a 19-year-old woman who was on night stroll with her boyfriend was yesterday jailed for an effective 15 years. Thompson Nyamare from Caledonia Phase 12 threatened to take the lovebirds to the police station, but later ordered the boyfriend to remain behind. He walked about two kilometres with the woman before raping her. Although Nyamare pleaded not guilty to rape charges, Harare magistrate Mr Tendai Mahwe, convicted him after a full trial.He was sentenced to 18 years in jail, but three years were suspended for five years on condition of good behaviour. In aggravation the prosecutor, Ms Rufaro Mhandu, said Nyamare disrespected the complainant and paid scant regard for her chastity. He robbed her of dignity and labelled her a sex worker although he knew she was not, said Ms Mhandu.In his defence, Nyamare told the court that he knew the complainant as a prostitute. He said he paid her for sexual favours. I met her at a beerhall and she initially charged me $2 before raising the fee to $5. I am surprised by the allegations, said Nyamare.Ms Mhandu said on August 30 this year, at around 8pm, the complainant was standing with her boyfriend at a road in Caledonia Phase 12. After the sexual assault, Nyamare ran away and the complainant phoned her boyfriend, who accompanied her home.The assault was reported to the police, leading to Nyamare s arrest. Myself as the community representative.He added that he also represented the girl child and advised the couple that it was unlawful for them to be seen together at that time of the night. Nyamare ordered the complainant to accompany him to the police station and ordered the boyfriend to remain behind.He walked for about two kilometres before dragging the woman into a bushy area. He tripped her to the ground and raped her.She screamed but Nyamare threatened to kill her if she did not stop. After the sexual assault, Nyamare ran away and the complainant phoned her boyfriend.He accompanied her to her parents home and the matter was reported to the police.