Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion Talk 263 &#8212; Another week has passed and it is just a week before October ends. I am sure your resolutions are working, unless you do the rush in the last two months. One thing you ought to know is that when you love fashion, there is no weekend. Everything just blends together. Yes, some once said that music always sounds better on Friday but have you tried weekends with a bit of fashion and style.So this past week saw the All White Party thing with fashion dessert and disaster trending. The party was hosted by popular business mogul Genius Kadungure and as always he sticks to his themes, dress elegant and in all white. I agree that themed parties create lasting memories but you have to make sure your themed event or birthday party is a hit with decorations and dress code.These days it s no longer enough to have a simple party or function. People expect more out of their events. The key to keeping a good theme is to make sure it all ties together. Details are important. Guests will remember some of the smaller things that you do. They also tend to like things that are individualised.In line with that, as now the norm at Ginimbi parties, there are those who decide to steal the show whether dressing up or dressing down. Good thing they still stick to the theme. Last year, it was socialite Wendy Matsika who caused a stir as she went in white bikini and many were surprised with the move.This time is dancer Maury Maks who not only tried to pull a Toni Braxton-Riri and Ciara look, attending the party without any panties. Hell has no fury like a woman s scorned. Where is the world going too when it comes to fashion. Is it the extreme or the new look?Remember the rule of fashion, be trendy and stylish at the same time but if you try to put three looks together yet you not even close to those who started off with the trend then you vying for trash disaster. Maks chose to wear the popular dress worn by Toni Braxton at the Grammies, Ciara later on imitated the look and obvious she has a personal stylist she managed to outshine even Toni.Now enter Maks who not only wore black bras but the tailor made a big outfit. The question is, was she not measured or tried it before attending the event or she did it herself? She later apologised for indecency but won the crown for taking the limelight.To those thinking where was the Rihanna party, actually it was the crown she wore, LOL. However, still on that, we need to know who is she and since she is saying has a Hollywood background, what is her claim to fame or it is just an excuse.We all know about her after the wardrobe malfunction. With how the party was structured and with well known celebrities attending, I am sure the organisers would have given us heads up that watch out for Maks from Hollywood.My conclusion is that she is a star in the making trying to be out there with fashion Welcome but be guided, if you want controversy better be alert. Anyway, kudos to the owners of the party as they proved that elegancy was in their DNA, checking on how businesswoman Zodwa pulled the look, JLO would be green with envy.The birthday boy and his friends also made the list of best dressed, which is obvious. There was one dj who had good combination on T-shirt and trousers. When it comes to shoes, I guess it was a problem to find one as not only he wore dirty old off white Nike sneakers. If you are a public figure, be guided that all eyes are on you and the red carpet police is always watching.I couldn t help it after many people started blasting those who didn t live up to billing at the event. You need to know habit is the shirt made of iron, even Lady Gaga became famous because of her dressing. Still on the topic of fashion and themes, someone asked: Should guests follow wedding colours on the invite and how to dress up for the theme? Thanks to Maks who managed to give us heads up to tackle the issue.When you find yourself rummaging through the inventory inside of your closet, trying to pick out the perfect dress to wear to an upcoming wedding on your calendar, take note that there are a handful of colours you should avoid so that you don t get mistaken for the bride, a bridesmaid, groomsmenor even just a guest that stumbled into the wrong party.Good that only the groom and bride will have a unique dress code unless you decide to be them. Off-white, beige, champagne, cream, or any other super light colour that could be mistaken for white when the lights are dim and the people around you are toasting drink number three should never be worn.It not only annoy the bridal team but when it comes to photography it is a factor to be considered. If you are close with the bride, ask her for a heads up on what colour the bridesmaid dresses are. That way, you won t look like you re trying to be a third-wheel to the wedding party by wearing a different style mint green dress than the other girls in the bridal party.There s more to attending a wedding than getting dressed up, shedding a few tears and partying all night long you have some important responsibilities too. Be guided that when you receive an invite (usually six to eight weeks before the wedding), don t let it get lost on the coffee table.