Jurgen KloppLONDON. Liverpool have found their identity under manager Jurgen Klopp, who has transformed the Merseyside club into genuine English Premier League soccer title contenders this season, former Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson has said. Liverpool have won nine of their 12 games in all competitions this season and are third in the league behind leaders Manchester City only on goal difference. He has done a really good job and revived Liverpool s enthusiasm, Ferguson, who won the league 13 times, said. It can happen that big clubs lose it. For two decades, Liverpool changed managers without building their own identity. You can now well and truly sense that you have to count them in this year. You can see Klopp s dedication on the sideline, I m convinced his work in training is similar. He s a strong personality. That s absolutely vital at a big club. I m worried about him because the one thing United don t want is Liverpool to get above us. He added: I think there are five potential candidates. Manchester City as favourites, Tottenham and Liverpool, but also United are still there if we get some consistency soon. Even when you are trailing by six, eight points, it s still possible to catch one or two teams. Meanwhile, Klopp has welcomed Sir Alex Ferguson s endorsement but joked he is in no position to return the compliment.Ferguson admitted a year ago he was concerned by Klopp s arrival at Liverpool, the club he famously succeeded in knocking off their perch during his 26 years at Manchester United. And the Scot this week said Klopp s impact at Anfield means the Reds are genuine contenders for a 19th English title and a first since 1990.Asked for his reaction to such praise from one of Liverpool s most bitter rivals Klopp, whose side go into the weekend level on points with leaders Manchester City, said: Is it allowed for me to say I like Alex Ferguson? I met him before I was Liverpool manager. It s nice for him to say something positive. Ferguson claims Klopp has restored the club s identity and enthusiasm , and the German said: Maybe we had to change the minds of fans about the past, but while I don t know too much about enthusiasm I feel there is a positive atmosphere in and around Melwood at the moment. That s good. It s not cool when you always think about football that you re 20 per cent more upset, you should be feeling better. That s our job to do. Until now it s worked somehow. It s really, really intense even when football isn t the most important thing. Klopp revealed his own admiration for Crystal Palace ahead of today s trip to Selhurst Park and believes Alan Pardew s side are realistic contenders for next season s Europa League.He said: It s a difficult place to play, small, atmosphere. We are looking forward to it. We have to prove we want to stay on track. Palace are a good team and very experienced in defence with high-quality offence. They have made good signings in the summer and in my opinion they can aim for Europe. They re a really good team. One of those summer signings was Christian Benteke, signed from Liverpool after failing to convince Klopp he was worth a regular first-team place. Every player needs the space to develop and show things, the Reds boss said. The move made sense. Palace bought the player. In the last year he always showed his qualities, especially good at heading. We had to make decisions. I m always honest. My door is always open. The agreement we have is work hard. James Milner is a doubt for the Palace game with a knock, while young defender Joe Gomez will not be back before the international break.Daniel Sturridge made a case to start with both goals against Tottenham in the EFL Cup, and Klopp said: I wasn t surprised by his performance. My selection isn t more difficult than before the game. After seeing the ease with which the younger players came into Liverpool s side during the midweek win over Tottenham, Georginio Wijnaldum believes Klopp will be happy to call on them again this season. I think it s a good sign for a team that you have players who can come in and fit into the team immediately, Wijnaldum said. And it s easy to make changes for a manager. It s not a problem when someone is out, as you can change to a player with good quality. It s a good thing for the team. It s not easy for a young player to play in a big game for a big club. A lot of players get nervous and lose confidence, but I didn t see it in these players. The Telegraph.