Trade Kings Limited has completed the construction and installation of a Boom detergent powder and paste plants under phase one of its five-year $50 million investment in Zimbabwe. Trade Kings is the largest FMCG in Zambia and one of the major manufacturers in the region. The company produces detergents (liquid, paste and powders), soaps, sweets, lollipops, confectionery and soya nuggets.Trade Kings says the Zimbabwean plant will not only service the local market but will also service other countries in the sub-region such as Botswana, Lesotho and Mozambique.According to the group s Public Relations department, commissioning of the initial phase is targeted for next month. The project is a five-year, $50 million investment. We are currently fast approaching the completion of construction and installation of the first phase which includes the detergent powder and paste plants. It will be commissioned on November 7, 2016. Construction of the plant under the phased approach commenced last year and was initially targeted for commissioning in October this year.Trade Kings $50 million investment is one the biggest investments from Zambia into Zimbabwe and the company also believes the Harare plant will be efficient in servicing the region as well as cutting costs on the importation of raw materials. We decided to set up here because Harare, for instance, is nearer to the sea than Lusaka, so we cut off about 600km in terms of imports for the raw materials. It is cheaper and we can compete favourably against our competitors in the sub-region, director of corporate affairs Bright Chunga said recently.According to information on its website, Trade Kings, a wholly Zambian owned company, opened for business in 1995 and quickly established itself as a formidable exporter of a quality range of manufactured products in five export markets.The first product it manufactured was Boom washing powder and the company has fast expanded into other products such as soya and confectionery. These products rapidly became the leading brands in Zambia and started penetrating five export markets in the region including Malawi, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Congo and South Africa. Wires.