Robson Sharuko and Paul MundandiA DOZEN years ago Leonard Tsipa won the Golden Boot scoring 18 goals as he helped power CAPS United to their first league title since the turn of the millennium in a season of both triumph and disaster for the Green Machine. The forward led from the front as CAPS United s Dream Team dominated the domestic Premiership losing just one game along the way when they lost a seven-goal thriller to Highlanders at the National Sports Stadium and were unbeaten in their 15 matches on the road as they finished 15 points clear of Highlanders.But the success was overshadowed by the accident which claimed the lives of three of their stars Blessing Makunike, Shingi Arlon and Gary Mashoko who died on their way home after a league match against Njube Sundowns which the Green Machine had won 2-1.Twelve years later, Tsipa is leading the Golden Boot race and leading the front as CAPS United battle to end 11 years of waiting for the league title.The striker, who turns 35 on January 25 next year, was on target as CAPS United beat Border Strikers 3-1 in Beitbridge on Sunday to open a two-point lead at the top of the table after FC Platinum crashed to a 1-2 defeat at the hands of Harare City.Now, with just four games left in the championship race, CAPS United have their fate firmly in their hands and if they win all their games, they will be crowned champions, irrespective of what happens elsewhere.They could even win the league title with three wins and one draw. I have faith, I believe in God who has changed my life, said Tsipa. My team believes in God. I was at one point astray, but I have faith that CAPS United is the team that is going to lift the league championship. My second wife, Samantha, changed my life as she urged me to devote my life to God. My coach Chitembwe made me a new player by pushing me to the limits and urging me to train hard. I owe it to him and his assistant Tostao (Kwashi) who takes me for physical training at The Kopje. If you listen to Chitembwe you will go places. I have played outside the country, but now at 34, I still feel I can compete with the youngsters. I am still eager to learn. The truth is we are going to lift the league championship this season. Tsipa said he was looking forward to playing a big role in the remainder of the race. The race is very interesting. Bosso and FC Platinum are playing very well, but I have the faith that we will win the league championship, said Tsipa. We had a difficult season, but now things are beginning to take shape. I hail our sponsor Mr Jere (Farai, the club president), the technical team and fans and with their support we are going to win the championship for them. I also thank the media in Zimbabwe for they have played a bigger part in changing and supporting me to be the person I am today. Meanwhile, a Beitbridge-based CAPS United fan Godfrey Nhokwara on Sunday donated money, energy drinks and cash to the players a few hours before their match. It was more to do with supporting the players and the technical team s loyalty especially during the period when everything was not rosy with their welfare. We were booted out of the Chibuku Cup and I was pained. CAPS United is a big brand. I felt I should motivate the players and their technical team and I feel the players must be getting incentives until the last day of the league I applaud the support from Farai Jere and since CAPS United has no corporate sponsor I feel that individuals who love the team should come in at such times and give their support because we want to lift the league, said Godfrey Nhokwara.He handed the goods and money to CAPS Unites captain Moses Muchenje.CAPS United players and the technical team were hosted for lunch by the Masvingo Chapter of their fans on the eve of their match against Border Strikers.