Charles Mabika Special Correspondent AFTER a very difficult jigsaw puzzle mission, I have eventually come up with the following Perfect Warriors, an 18-man team that I feel would have definitely punched above their weight and taken Zimbabwe to the World Cup. Team selection has been based on a 4-4-2 formation.GOALKEEPER Bruce Grobbelaar The most successful local export who reached lofty heights with English giants Liverpool and won the European Cup (once) and six league titles with them. Nurtured by local side Salisbury Callies, The Jungleman was an agile and fine distributor who also had a brief stint at Highlanders. Blessed with perfect timing when dealing with crosses, he also added colour to the game with his theatrics on the pitch. DEFENDERS Mercedes Sibanda A roving and powerful right wingback, Rambo was a rearguard stalwart who packed a screamer with his right foot both on the run and from dead ball situations. Oliver Kateya Gifted with a cultured left foot which always delivered pin-point crosses, this left wingback just loved to join in the team s attack (not surprisingly because he had started his career as a speedy forward at Metal Box before joining Dynamos). Norman Mapeza Gangly and authoritative he could also be deployed as a defensive midfielder. Had rewarding stints in Europe and returned home to become a successful coach, winning the league with Monomotapa while his side, FC Platinum, lead the Premiership title race in the dying stages of the season. Daniel Chikanda A tough-as-nails centre back, nicknamed The Rock, he captained the Warriors and the now defunct Black Aces. An astute commander on the pitch who hated losing, he was also a free-kick specialist, usually unleashing unstoppable rockets into the roof of the net. MIDFIELDERS Benjamin Nkonjera An immensely talented ball winner who rose to fame at Highlanders and the Dream Team. Had the same emphatic Nkonjera seldom came out second best in a tackle and his smile charmed the fans. A workaholic whose little frame bellied the tiger in his body. George Shaya The man I regard as the finest-ever player produced in the country. An entertainer-par-excellence who was the Dynamos weapon of destruction . One man does not make a team . . . so the sporting world knows, but there many in this country who believed that Shaya was a close exception to that rule. Stanford M tizwa A wizard of the dribble who was a marvel to watch. Also possessed the uncanny ability to pull the trigger unexpectedly before catching the opposition keeper unaware from long range. A pure gem who could also win possession in the middle of the park, his repertoire always cried for a showcase in the lucrative European leagues, but never got the opportunity. Moses Chunga Sublime vision and out-of-this-world finishes were the hallmark of The Razorman. Flamboyant and gifted with inimitable flair, he could change the course of things for his teams and once scored for Dynamos directly from a corner kick in a match against Arcadia United at Rufaro in 1984. Made a mark for his Belgian club, E. Aalst. Slammed 46 goals for Dynamos in the 1986 season. FORWARDS Peter Ndlovu The undisputed King of the Warriors . A swashbuckling, speed merchant, Nsukuzonke epitomised the meaning of the word patriot through his unwavering devotion to the national soccer team s cause. For Ndlovu, hitting the back of the net was as easy shelling peas. He always loved to straying onto the wings and pick up passes before jinking his way past his markers with mercurial liquidity and lashing with either foot at goal. Starred for his English top-flight side, Coventry City in the 90s. Knowledge Musona A modern day goal predator who is turning defenders heads and bodies inside out in Europe where he is the leading actor in his club s KV Ostoende s cast. Naturally gifted with explosive poise upfront, there are many (including me) who are adamant that he can walk into any of the world s leading first teams starting line-up right now!SUBSTITUTES Japhet Muparutsa No other local keeper, including Grobbelaar, was as good as The Short Cat at launching attacks with the most immaculate of distribution skills. Although he was short, he made up for this with perfect timing and amazing reach. Was also a spot-kick saving specialist. Ephraim Chawanda Gangly and uncompromising, The Rock of Gibraltar seldom came out second best in the air. A forceful commander, he led diligently from the back and was the skipper of The Dream Team .Costa Nhamoinesu He was the pebble on the Warriors beach as he led his team on their way to the Afcon finals in Gabon set for next year. Equally comfortable as a centre back or right/left wingback, Jah C exudes confidence whenever he is winning tackles, in possession or running off the ball.Ronald Sibanda An immaculate distributor who operated the control tower at Zimbabwe Saints and Dynamos and the Warriors with finesse. Blessed with unbelievable vision, Gidiza remains the last and genuine creative hub of the Warriors. Stanley Ndunduma Players like him come once in a lifetime. A wing wizard who was also a speed merchant, he could also be deployed to operate as a central midfielder to play just behind the attackers. One of only three men to win the Soccer Star of the Year award more than once, Sinyo was a favourite among the fans down the right wing. Shacky Tauro Explosive and daring, this centre forward was as good as it gets and just couldn t stop scoring. Mr Goals simply hated goalkeepers! A predator in the penalty box, he was simply devastating. Undoubtedly the most famous player to wear CAPS United jersey. Peter Nyama The highest ever scorer in local football when he scored 62 goals in the 1970 season. The myth is that every keeper who was destined to face Thunderboots the following day, would have nightmares on the eve of the match. HEAD COACH Sunday Chidzambwa A tough-tackling centreback, Mhofu could have also made it into my team. His career was prematurely ended after a horrific injury in 1982 and he ventured into coaching where he has set the bar at its highest level after becoming the most successful coach in this country at club and national level.