President Mugabe congratulates Ms Elizabeth Tshuma (assisted by a nurse), who graduated with an Honours Degree in Information Technology at Harare Institute of Technology (HIT) yesterday. (Picture by John Manzongo)Elita Chikwati Senior Reporter&#8212; President Mugabe yesterday conferred degrees on 347 graduates at the Harare Institute of Technology s seventh graduation ceremony in Harare. The number of graduates this year increased from 320 last year. Of the 347, 112 successfully completed their undergraduate degrees in Information Science and Technology, 57 in Business and Management Sciences, 119 in Engineering Technology and 59 in Industrial sciences and Technology.Related&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;. President caps 1 065 Bindura students President Mugabe caps 1 063 at GZU President Mugabe caps 1 986 at Nust President caps 4 719 at MSU President caps 480 President caps 3 274 at UZ President caps 1 600 graduates at CUT 190 graduate from Lupane State University President caps 78-year-old Chief Mashayamombe President caps 2 001 Nust students President caps 1 245 at CUT President Mugabe caps 182 HIT students In his address HIT vice chancellor, Engineer Quinton Kanhukamwe said the institution developed and incubated technopreneurs that are expected to play a vital role in the knowledge economy that Zimbabwe is growing. He said HIT required business and industrial partners and other organisations both private and public to commercialise innovative technologies. We believe that critical to the research initiatives of our students and staff, is the need to protect our intellectual property both for the benefit of innovators, the university and the nation. We have successfully filed seven patents, six utility models, four industrial designs and 72 copyright application packages, he said.A part IV student also designed hybrid solar, electricity and gas powered vapour absorption refrigeration systems. The university also designed and installed a smart meter, developed a canning machine, and is in the process of constructing a bio-digester as a way of promoting use of alternative energy sources. One of our students in software engineering was recognised by Google and invited to attend the Google Developer Community Summit in San Francisco in May 2016. HIT was awarded the International Socrates Awards for the Best Enterprise at the Europe Business Assembly European Awards and Forum in Canes, France, he said.Eng Kanhukamwe paid tribute to countries that support the institution in research and skills development that include India, Turkey, Iran, China and Korea. HIT now enrols students from Namibia, Angola DRC and South Sudan as the institution embraced the regional integration thrust.Eng Kanhukamwe said HIT worked with various ministries to ensure national development. The institute is working with the central bank in ensuring financial inclusion strategy comes to life. Our school has come in hand by developing systems and applications that encourage use of technology in remote parts of the country, he said.He applauded President Mugabe for introducing the Psycho-motor ministry which he said was important in skills development and technoprenurial skills required to drive reverse engineering and design elements in polytechnics. We would like to extend our appreciation to our ministry and Minister Professor Jonathan Moyo for granting us the funding for the up-scaling and commercialisation of some of the projects and purchasing machinery and laboratory equipment. More should be done to respond to STEM initiative. If we do not invest in equipment tools, platforms and infrastructure we run the risk of frustrating these academics which is detrimental to national development, he said.