Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter CAPS United s two-goal hero Dennis Dauda believes the team s performance against Dynamos in yesterday s Castle Lager Premiership soccer match at the National Sports shows that they have matured as a team. Dauda believes with such a commendable showing, they deserve to be crowned league champions at the end of the season. The lanky defender was the hero of the Harare Derby when he twice headed the ball into the net to ensure the pacesetters firmly remain in charge in an intriguing championship race which also has Highlanders and FC Platinum in contention.The former ZPC Kariba man opened the account for the down, but not out Makepekepe in the 86th before he got the equaliser in the third minute of optional time. Dauda s goals were sandwiched by another goal from green horn forward Amon Kambanje, who came on in the second period and scored in the 88th minute. This shows that we are now mature and have the character of champions in us, but it is still game on and we still have three matches to play, said Dauda. Dauda had a sense of urgency during the game, twice taking the ball to the centre circle after scoring.The 2014 Soccer Star of the Year said he just had a feeling that they could stage a dramatic comeback. We had a feeling that we could score when we were trailing and when I scored the first goal, I took the ball and went to the centre. Again, when we scored, I took the ball to the centre circle again because I was feeling that we would come back said Dauda. Scoring a rare brace and coming from a defender, the 2014 domestic football king was rather modest with his achievement.He was on target for the first time this season in CAPS United s 3-2 victory against How Mine on September 24. And it appears the tall defender is not going to stop scoring. I feel so great. The first goal was an opener, the second was an equaliser, so I am really happy with these goals, he said.However, Dauda described his goals as silly. They were silly goals, the goals I scored. They (Dynamos) had relaxed and I took advantage of that said Dauda. CAPS United forward Simba Nhivi also echoed the same sentiments and said the whole season they have displayed character and they deserve to be crowned champions.He said their resilience in yesterday s match paid off. We didn t give up and had our fighting spirit on. We never gave up and said let s go guys, let s push, even if we lose let s lose with dignity. But look what God did for us, (He) gave us three goals within a short space of time. I think our next game against Harare City is a special one and even more special than this one. God was also on our side. I was always feeling that we were going to come back and I was encouraging my teammates to give it all their best. They (Dynamos) relaxed, they were not marking and thought they had won it. We have shown character not only in this game, but throughout the season. We have faith that we will win the league and if we win our next three games the title will come on its own, said Nhivi.However, the former Dynamos striker said they still have a lot of work to do before they can talk of the league title. We have never doubted our qualities and we have shown that we have good quality in the whole of the CAPS United squad, but this game is over and we look forward to the next one. We play each game as it comes and we are going to study how we conceded those goals and rectify it in the game against Harare City, said Nhivi.