Grace Chingoma Senior Sports ReporterCAPS United assistant coach Fungai Tostao Kwashi says they face a tough match when they return to league action against Border Strikers at Dulivhadzimu tomorrow. The Green Machine had a free weekend last week because they were knocked out in the first round of the Chibuku Super Cup. Now they face their former coach, Luke Masomere who is now in charge of the Beitbridge side. We expect a very tough away match, we know Border Strikers will be highly motivated playing CAPS United, a team which is doing very well. They would want to beat us, said Kwashi. We respect them and they have a very good coach in Luke who is well travelled and is a football man. The break was actually a blessing in disguise for us as we managed to recharge our batteries and everyone is now focused on the weekend game. We have no regrets with what happened in the past. The Green Machine have been boosted by the return of midfielders Tafadzwa Rusike and Archieford Gutu to training this week. CAPS United will be without defender Stephen Makatuka who has been ruled out after accumulating three yellow cards. Stephen is a quality player, we will miss him, but we also have Carlton (Munzabwa) who made a formidable combination with Stavo last season. The good thing at CAPS United is that we have depth in our squad, said Kwashi. The former CAPS United winger said they don t underrate their opponents as they have some good players. They have Ephraim Mwinga, one of the most underrated defenders in our league. Kudzanai Kwashi, my young brother, who plays in central midfield is another player we have to look out for, said Kwashi. Border Strikers say they are under pressure going into this game. Masomere said a lot is at stake in this match. We have also tried to prepare ourselves to meet a championship-chasing team. We don t want to put pressure on ourselves, but we would want to play this match as a Cup game and try to win. It is not going to be an easy game for both of us we want to survive relegation and they want to win the league. They are a complete team which is organised and we are the underdogs, but we will do our best, said Masomere.FixturesToday: Ngezi Platinum v Tsholotsho (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Triangle (Nyamhunga), How Mine v Mutare City (Luveve), Harare City v FC Platinum (Rufaro), Chapungu v Highlanders.Tomorrow: Bulawayo City v Chicken Inn (B/F), Dynamos v Hwange (Rufaro), Border Strikers v CAPS United (Dulivhadzimu).