Various activities have been designed in a way that make them entertainingGodwin Muzari: Arts EditorFun and endurance might be situational opposites, but the two go hand-in-hand at Thomson Bootcamp Fitness Challenge where a lot of tough assignments are done in a way that makes them appear easy. With the major aim of losing weight, many teams compete in various activities that have made the challenge popular with many. It started as an event for women and men have now joined the trek. Today, teams from Harare, Bulawayo and Masvingo will meet at Raylton Sports Club for the challenge that would see winners getting shields.Various activities have been designed in a way that make them entertaining. While participants will have to endure a lot to make marks in the contest, they will also be treated to moments of fun and excitement.Organiser of the fitness challenge event Thomson Matenda said participants had shown enthusiasm ahead of the event.Previous challenges were held in Harare and Bulawayo with many teams exhibiting exciting fitness acts.Matenda said today s event will have tough assignments, but they have designed the programme in a way that would make in an entertaining family day. We started the challenge with a few teams last year and this year many people have shown interest. On Saturday (today) we will have 16 teams of 15 participants each. They will go through various activities and we are inviting people to come and witness a fun-filled fitness challenge, said Matenda. We have a number of set objectives and our main aim is to fight obesity and unwanted weight. We decided to spice our activities with some fun so that people can work out while they contest to outpace each other. This is fitness challenge outside the gym. We want to show people that they can have fun while losing weight without gym equipment. However, the fun part is just a way of spicing some tough assignments and there is a lot of endurance involved. He said the programme is meant to fight cardiovascular diseases that affect many people because of lack of exercise.Having the activities in a form of competition has inspired teams to put maximum effort, which has been beneficial to their fitness. The programme encourages team work. People from different backgrounds come together to pool their efforts with the ultimate aim of being winners. In the process they enhance their fitness. When teams train towards the competitions, they engage in various fitness exercises. It is no longer simply a case of training to lose weight. It becomes a case of practicing for a competition and in the process the participants get fitness results. The challenge began last year and many ladies have benefited from the programme. Currently, many women are involved in fitness programmes, contrary to the previous scenario when men dominated the field.Out of the 16 teams participating, only four are made of male contestants and Matenda said it is encouraging to have women dominating the activities because they have complicated health issues that can be solved through exercising. Women go through complicated health experiences because of motherhood. During pregnancy and after giving birth, they need special medical attention. We complement the medical attention, we focus on the physical aspect and these exercises are helpful. Today, the teams will go through various fitness activities that include sack race, tyre flip, tyre handover, tug of war, baby carry and tyre-pulling relays among others.Tyre resistance runThis activity involves carrying a heavy truck tyre and running for a distance of about three kilometres. Teams of four people each carry the tyres and go through a route with obstacles. The obstacles may include open pits, artificial anthills and precast walls among others.The teams have to negotiate their way through the obstacles with their heavy tyres.Tyre pullingIndividuals will have to pull tyres using ropes tied to their waists. The activity is done in relay form and the participants exchange the ropes and tyres and run for 100 metres each. Each team will be made up of four members.Sack raceMany people are familiar with sack race. Participants put both lags in a sack and start hopping for about 160 meters. It is also done in relay form and teams of four individuals each exchange the sacks successively as the race progresses.Last dish team standingFour participant per team lie on their backs while stretching their feet upwards in a 90-degree format. They make a secular form and big dish with water in placed under their feet conversely.A team that is able to endure the weight of the dish longer wins the contest.Wheelbarrow luggageIt is a faster race where pairs push each other in wheelbarrows in a rebound style.The first person pushes a wheelbarrow carrying a teammate to a 100-metre point and they exchange roles for their return run and hand over the wheelbarrow to the next couple.Sungura aerobicsThe task will involve all team members and they will be dancing to some sungura songs in a choreographed way. Matenda said he chose sungura music to divert from conventional aerobics and the dances will be different. The dances will be rated by the way teams show co-ordination in their paces. They are energetic dances that are not traditional sungura styles.Tug of warIt is also a common activity that has been practiced for many years. Each team will have seven participants that would pull the rope. It is an activity that tests power and endurance.Many other activities will make the programme that goes for six hours and will involve other non-physical training fun activities.After the event the teams will socialise during a braai and music session that will be led by a popular disc jockey.Matenda said the fitness challenge is set to spread to other cities next year, culminating in a proper national final that would include all provinces.He said they aim to educate people about the importance of fitness training in promoting a healthy lifestyle. I have been involved in fitness training in sports for the national soccer team and Dynamos football club and I am now concentrating on these bootcamps. People enjoy camping to have fun while gaining physical fitness and teams that are coming to this contest have been training hard. The strongest team will take the shield. 