Elita Chikwati Senior Reporter&#8212; Zimbabwe experienced extremely high temperatures yesterday, with some areas breaking records that were set as far back as the 1960s. Some showers are expected in southern parts of the country today. Meteorological Services Department senior forecaster Mr Tich Zinyemba yesterday confirmed that most areas experienced extremely high temperatures ranging from 35 degrees Celsius to 42 degrees Celsius as forecast last week, although he could not readily provide comparative figures from previous years. The forecast went as predicated. We had anticipated high temperatures on Saturday and Sunday, but this has extended to Monday (yesterday). The temperatures are still high, but we expect some light showers in Matabeleland North and South, Midlands as well as Masvingo provinces tomorrow (today), he said.Mr Zinyemba said extremely high temperatures were recorded in Chinhoyi (38 degrees Celsius), Harare International Airport, 35 degrees Celsius, Hwange 39 degrees Celsius, Chivhu 36 degrees Celsius, Marondera 34 degrees Celsius and Victoria Falls 41 degrees Celsius among other areas.He said temperatures in Beitbridge fell because the area was cloudy.Beitbridge recorded a maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius.Last Friday, the Met Dept urged members of the public to take precautionary measures to protect themselves from the adverse weather conditions. People should drink lots of fluids, particularly water, avoid prolonged stay in the sun, avoid outdoor activities between 11:30am and 3:00pm and protect oneself from the sun by using umbrellas and wide-brimmed hats. The danger is extremely high for runaway fires (edited). While this is happening, a cloud band is expected to start entering the western and southern areas of the country from Sunday. This should cover much of the country by Tuesday. If the expected weather patterns behave as predicted, then the ensuing rains should be significant over the whole country. This may signal the start of the 2016/17 rainfall season for Matabeleland North and South, Midlands as well as Masvingo provinces, the Met Dept said.They also warned the public that the combination of this moisture together with heat could trigger violent storms that may be accompanied by hail and damaging winds. Already this month, the country has had weather-related disasters in some parts. These disasters are forecast to increase in frequency as the rain-bearing weather systems become more organised.The Department will continue monitoring the conditions and accordingly update the public.