Grace Chingoma Senior Sports ReporterDefending Chibuku Super Cup champions Harare City have been boosted by the return of midfield sensation Ronald Chitiiyo as the Sunshine Boys brace themselves for a tough semi-final assignment against FC Platinum at Mandava on Saturday. Chitiyo missed the trip to Hwange for a league match on Sunday with a bout of flu.His return is a relief for the technical team, who have often struggled to have their full squad compliment at their disposal this year.Injuries have been the major challenge at Harare City, forcing their coach Moses Chunga to constantly tinker with his starting line-up.Chunga was pleased with Chitiyo s recovery although there were still lingering concerns over defender Jimmy Tigere and Munyaradzi Diro-Nyenye, who has a recurring ankle problem.The Sunshine Boys are desperate for stability and will be looking to bounce back after losing their last league match away at Hwange.Chunga said they are the team to beat in the tournament which they won last year under Taurai Mangwiro. Pressure is always with us because as the defending champions all eyes will be on us. We have to continue with the good run in this tournament, but we have had challenges with injuries this year. Every week we are missing players due to injuries and it s not healthy. But Rooney (Chitiyo) has recovered from a bout of flu, so is Jimmy Tigere. Arnold Chiveya has also returned, but due to the long injury lay-off he is lacking on match fitness, said Chunga.Harare City will be aiming to play in their third Chibuku Super Cup final in succession.Ironically, they lost the 2014 final to FC Platinum at Mandava albeit in controversial circumstances. Saturday s semi-finals could bring back the bad memories. I don t want to be a crybaby. I leave it to God, but my appeal is for everyone to be professional. Everyone, including the match officials, (they) should do their job well. Overall, I think the boys are hungry for this cup and I will drink Chibuku Super for them with every stage that we progress. The most worrying thing, though, is that we have been missing chances. Right now we could be the team with the most goals in the league, but it s unfortunate. If we had scored more goals it could even have improved our position on the log standings, said Chunga.The Sunshine Boys needed a penalty shootout to progress from the quarter-finals after they had played out a 2-2 draw ZPC Kariba at Nyamhunga.Chunga s men began their campaign on a high note when they thrashed struggling newboys Border Strikers 4-0 at Rufaro courtesy of goals from Jerry Chipangura, Chitiyo, William Manondo and Edwin Madhananga.FC Platinum on the other hand beat Chapungu 2-0 in the first round and then edged Triangle 1-0 away at Gibbo in the last eight.Giants Highlanders will host newboys Ngezi Platinum at Barbourfields in the other semi-final. Bosso are enjoying good runof form with eyes fixed on a possible league and cup double.Fixtures:Harare City v FC Platinum (Mandava)Sunday:Ngezi Platinum v Highlanders (Barbourfields)