Snr Asst Comm CharambaCrime Reporter POLICE are warning the public to be wary of a gang of criminals targeting business premises and homes in search of money. The criminals are reportedly moving around the city. Chief police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba yesterday urged the public to avoid keeping large amounts of money at home or business premises. The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to advise the public of a spate of armed robberies that have recently been targeting business premises and residential areas where robbers pounce on citizens for their cash, property and other valuables, she said,She said on Saturday last week at around 1am, in Harare, 15 criminals pounced on a 27-year-old man who was waiting for his friends along Samora Machel Avenue.Snr Asst Comm Charamba said they struck him on the forehead with an unknown object and stole a satchel that contained clothes and other items, all valued at $60.On Tuesday, four armed robbers who were wearing woollen masks raided a service station in Hatfield at around 2am and got away with $4 351 after they blew a safe. The robbers first attacked a fuel attendant and a security guard. In yet another related incident which occurred on the same date at around 0300hours, six unknown male adults who were driving a white Toyota Hiace pounced on three security guards and a fuel attendant at a service station along Kirkman Road, said Snr Asst Comm Charamba.She said the robbers forced open a kiosk door and stole various groceries and a cash box. The value of things stolen is yet to be ascertained. Snr Asst Comm Charamba urged the public to report to their nearest police station suspicious individuals. Anyone with information on suspected criminal activities may also contact the police national complaints desk. Advanced security systems such as CCTVs and alarms must be installed at premises to assist in investigations of such crimes. Banking arrangements should also be put in place for those businesses which receive large amounts of cash daily, she said.