Eddie Chikamhi : Senior Sports ReporterDynamos &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;..(1) 2Mutare City Rovers &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;..0RODRECK Mutuma was on target again yesterday as former champions Dynamos bounced back into the top four with an easy win over Mutare City Rovers in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Rufaro. Mutuma had an easy task in scoring his fourth league goal for the Glamour Boys this season when he pounced on a loose ball inside the penalty box and rounded off goalkeeper Victor Twaliki. The self-styled prince has not seen much action this season but this was his second goal in as many matches after scoring in the 3-3 draw against CAPS United in their last match.It took Dynamos only four minutes to get the lead but the Glamour Boys still looked vulnerable until the 74th minute when substitute Dominic Mukandi sealed the points with a powerful low shot.Mutare City Rovers, with a little bit of luck, could have found the equaliser in the first half but goalkeeper Ashley Reyners twice made stunning saves to deny Stephen Dealer Sibanda and Agrippa Murimba from point blank. The result helped Dynamos bounce back into the top four after leapfrogging ZPC Kariba who lost 1-3 at Bulawayo City yesterday. I think it s good for us. The last game we played we scored three and today we scored two. It s unfortunate that we are getting the goals a bit late in the season but it s a positive sign, said coach Lloyd Mutasa.While the chances were few and far between for the hosts, Bret Amidu, who had a fine afternoon in the middle of the park, could have done better in the 57th minute had he not opted for personal glory. Amidu made a fine solo effort inside the opponents half but made the poor decision to blast the ball into the legs of the advancing goalkeeper when he had the option to square up Mutuma who was better positioned.Dynamos now have 43 points, a massive 14 behind title favourites CAPS United with two games remaining in the season.But Mutare City Rovers could have kissed top-flight football goodbye with the defeat following resolutions made by the ZIFA councillors on Saturday to maintain the old system of relegating four teams. Rovers, who had kept clean sheets in their previous assignments against ZPC Kariba, How Mine and Border Strikers, dropped to second from the bottom with 25 points. Mutare City Rovers coach Taku Shariwa indicated they may seek clarification on the relegation puzzle since they were made to believe only two teams would go down the drain. We still have to fight. There are still two games to go and we are just separated by one point (with Tsholotsho). So we have to move on and redeem ourselves quickly when we face Harare City. This is the first time we have slid in the second half but I can t rule out our chances of survival, said Shariwa.Sibanda did everything correctly inside the box in the 19th minute but goalkeeper Reyners made a good reflex save to keep Dynamos ahead.Then Murimba stole possession at the edge of the box after defender Obey Mwerahari had stumbled to come face to face with the goalkeeper but Reyners emerged tops with another point blank save.TeamsDynamos: A. Reyners, P. Makaha, O. Mushure, O. Mwerahari, M. Machazani, T. Chipunza, D. Mukamba, B. Amidu, M. Mambare (D. Mukandi, 69th min), T. Sadiki (V. Ndaba, 45th min), R. Mutuma (M. Madhiri, 86th min)Mutare City Rovers: V. Twaliki, M. Tapatapa, V. Madamombe, E. Sinaputa, M. Sako, C. Ngondonga, R. Madamombe (C. Muzawazi, 86th min), K. Gurure, B. Majamanda (Z. Makukutu, 69th min), A. Murimba (F. Muza, 81st min), S. Sibanda