Andy Muridzo and his band on stage at Dandaro InnTawanda Marwizi: Arts CorrespondentWith the tag copycat on his brand, musician Andy Muridzo, born Andrew Ngwenya, thought his career was headed for the rocks. When he ventured into music with his first album Pakubuda Kwezuva similarities with his mentor Jah Prayzah led many to label him a copy-cat. His second album, Ngarizhambe , has turned the tables and now he is one of the most sought-after musicians in the country. It is tipped to be the album of the year and the young musician said he is working to produce more good albums.Songs Dherira , Ngarizhambe and Dhafundunda have managed to steal the hearts of many music lovers. On Friday he had a well-attended show at Dandaro Inn. The musician said he never thought people will follow him whenever he performs. As you can see, our shows are well attended with fans appreciating me as Muridzo, he said.He said he was getting bookings and more corporates were jostling for him. To be honest, when I came onto the scene people condemned me but our music is different. I don t sing to copy but to entertain our society, he said.The musician is set to make his debut UK tour in December where he is set to share the stage with Soul Jah Love in a gig dubbed Festive Explosion UK Tour . Everything has been set for the two shows in the UK. We are grateful to every promoter that is willing to work with us, he said.Muridzo started his career at Musanhi Secondary School, Jah Prayzah s alma mater. By then everyone was convinced that he was a star in the making earning him the nickname Muridzo . In 2014 he met Jah Prayzah at a United Methodist Church service where the lanky musician offered him help to pursue music as a career. We were at a church service in Uzumba when I met Jah Prayzah who then offered to guide me in my career but unfortunately that time I was still at school and we could not say much, he said. That is the last time he communicated with Jah Prayzah. On finishing school he relocated to Harare. Jah Prayzah was happy that I decided to venture into music full-time. I have to be honest, he did everything for me when I recorded my first album called Pakubuda Kwezuva, he said.That was the beginning of his career and he would get shows on his own as well as being a curtain-raiser for his brother . As he reflected on how his journey started the young musician gives emphasis on hard work as the key to stardom.