Eddie Chikamhi Sports ReporterTHE Dynamos board yesterday claimed that club president Kenny Mubaiwa will not be going anywhere following a meeting between the Harare businessman and chairman of the board Bernard Marriot-Lusengo. Mubaiwa and Marriot had a major fallout last week when the board overturned the dismissal of assistant coach Murape Murape.Mubaiwa confirmed the meeting, but was not keen to discuss the subject yesterday directing all questions to Marriot.Marriot excused himself from commenting and handed his phone to the board s secretary Mthokozisi Nkosi who said the two administrators held a crisis meeting yesterday where they ironed out the differences. He said Mubaiwa was staying on as president of the DeMbare executive. The chairman and the president met and we haven t received any resignation letter, like you reported in the press. Nothing has changed and hopefully nothing will change along the way. Like I said, it was a misunderstanding over the assistant coach s issue, but it was not as big as it emerged in the press. Things have been clarified and Mubaiwa will remain the president of the club. Of course there has been a misunderstanding between the (board) chairman and the president, but it seems some of the things have been blown out of proportion, said Nkosi.The Dynamos executive operates with a skeleton staff of only two people who include Mubaiwa and treasurer Webster Marechera who also doubles as the club s secretary-general.DeMbare has not been able to find a replacement for their former secretary-general Webster Chikengezha who left in May frustrated.The Glamour Boys are going through one of their worst moments on and off the pitch as they are set to endure another disappointing season without silverware.The league title is already beyond their reach and they were knocked out of the Chibuku Super Cup by How Mine in the first round.Nkosi said they are hoping to start building for next season with Mubaiwa in charge. Actually, from the board s perspective we need a stable leadership so that we start preparing for next season, seeing that the team has not done well this year. If anything we wouldn t want to rock the management of the club at this moment. We are all not happy with what has happened on the side of football results. The results have been bad and we are out of the running for the league championship and the Chibuku Super Cup, but we believe that this should serve as a wake-up call. It happens in football and sometimes when things just flow smoothly you tend to get complacent. So this is a time for self-introspection. Hopefully we have learnt from our mistakes, said Nkosi.