HAMILTON. &#8211; Hurricane Nicole has struck the North Atlantic island of Bermuda, causing widespread damage to homes and businesses. Nicole caused roads to collapse, tore roofs off buildings and uprooted trees. . .Numerous buildings and roads have also flooded, according to media reports yesterday.The powerful hurricane hit Bermuda between 11:00 and noon local time (1500 GMT Thursday) as a Category 3 on the five-level Saffir-Simpson storm intensity scale, packing winds of up to 195 kilometres per hour and lashing the island for hours with torrential rain.In the village of Flatts, just outside Bermuda s capital city of Hamilton, towering palm trees were bent over virtually at 90-degree angles in the howling winds, and boats moored at a nearby inlet rocked in the heavy waves.Government officials, however, said the damage was less than anticipated, adding that there were no reports of severe injuries or fatalities on the tiny Atlantic island chain, which is home to about 65 000 people. For a storm this size, I d say we re blessed, said Bermuda Premier Michael Dunkley. I don t think any part of the island was spared the wrath of Nicole. But. . .it could have been much worse. According to the US National Hurricane Centre in Miami, Florida, Nicole has been the strongest hurricane to sweep the subtropical British territory in more than a decade.While Bermuda is often affected by hurricanes each year, major ones rarely pass close to the islands. According to the National Hurricane Centre, only seven major hurricanes have passed within 40 nautical miles of Bermuda since records began in 1851.Meanwhile, Bermuda s government dispatched crews to clear roads and engineers to inspect infrastructure as the British territory moved to recovery quickly from Hurricane Nicole, which battered the island as a Category 3 storm.The heavy rains and wind dissipated overnight Thursday as many of the island s 65 000 residents ventured outside to assess the damage caused by 115 mph winds.Authorities, however, urged people to remain indoors for their safety. There has been significant flooding in areas around the island and some severe road damages, said National Security Minister Jeff Baron. Obviously, we are also concerned about downed trees and downed power lines, which are live. Schools and government offices remained closed yesterday, while the island s international airport is expected to open around noon. &#8211; AP/Press TV.