Charles ManyuchiSports ReporterTHERE are growing calls for Charles Manyuchi s promoters to take him to the United States where he can fight for the world title and make the most of his talent while he is still at the peak of his athletic powers. The 26-year-old World Boxing Council welterweight silver champion turned on a masterclass on Friday night to demolish Colombian boxer Jose Augustin Julio Feria in the first round of their non-title fight at the Harare International Conference Centre.Manyuchi, who has shaped his international profile while fighting away from home, was making his grand homecoming show and delivered as he floored his opponent in just less than three minutes.A devastating uppercut spelt the end for the Colombian boxer after Manyuchi had worked him with a combination of body blows and jabs.The Zimbabwean boxer also impressed with his superior hand speed and punching accuracy and many people now feel he is ripe for the big one.Manyuchi is set to fight in Europe again in the coming month to defend his title.His manager, Chris Malunga of Oriental Quarries Promotions, said he would be going to Miami, United States, to try and fix a bout for the Zimbabwean who also faces a mandatory defence of his title in Europe. We are heading for the WBC gold, Malunga. I ll be going to Miami soon and we have contractual obligations in Russia and Italy. We felt at home, Zimbabwean people are the best and I can tell you that the next fight for Manyuchi will be a sold-out (event). But many people feel that, at 26, Manyuchi is now at the prime of his athletic powers and should be given a chance to fight for the world title.Manyuchi saluted his fans. I would want to salute my Zimbabwean fans. I wanted to go for eight rounds with Feria so as to give the fans something to smile about. But boxing is like war, if you release your first bullet and it catches the enemy then the war will be over. That is what happened today. It was my first real show in my country and I had to show the cheering fans what stuff I am really made of. Thank you very much Zimbabweans, those who were at the venue and everyone who followed the bout on television, without forgetting all those who provided emotional and material support, said Manyuchi.Manyuchi s next port of call is an away title defence fight against Russia s Dmitry Mikhaylenko, ironically the man whom he defeated to land the silver crown in May.He expressed confidence that he will successfully defend the belt in the European country. I will continue to work hard in training to try and defend my title against Mikhaylenko. It is not going to be easy, but I think I will do it to make my people proud. I am a diplomat and will continue to work hard for more accolades, he said.WBC welterweightEmeritus Champion: Floyd Mayweather (US)Won Title: January 23, 2016Last Compulsory: May 3, 2014WBA Champion: Keith Thurman (US)IBF Champion: Kell Brook (UK)WBO Champion: Jessie Vargas (US)ContendersWBC Silver Champion: Charles Manyuchi (Zimbabwe)WBC International Champion : VACANT1 Andre Berto (US)2 Charles Manyuchi (Zimbabwe) SILVER3 Shawn Porter (US)4 Ray Robinson (US)5 Konstantin Ponomarev (Russia) NABF6 Omar Figueroa (Mexico/US)7 Carlos Molina (Mexico)8 Frankie Gomez (US)9 Cesar Miguel Barrionuevo (Argentina)10 Ceferino Rodriguez (Spain) LATINO11 Lonut Dan Ion (Romania/Canada)12 David Peralta (Argentina)13 Sammy Vasquez Jr (US)14 Paul Malignaggi (Italy/US)15 Dmitry Mikhaylenko (Russia)