LONDON. Paul Pogba insists he has not been distracted by criticism of his recent performances after scoring the winning goal for France in Monday night s World Cup soccer qualifier against the Netherlands. The Manchester United star has attracted negative reviews for both club and country this season following his world record move from Juventus in the summer.Indeed, the 23-year-old was told he could do better by his own international manager Didier Deschamps last Friday following the 4-1 win over Bulgaria, after which he was given a match rating of four by French newspaper L equipe, with no other French player scoring lower.Pogba returned to form, however, against the Dutch with a winning goal, a trademark long-range thunderbolt, to cement France s place at the head of Group A alongside Sweden. I play for the France team. It s not the Pogba team, he told Canal+ afterwards. We re not going to start talking individual. I play for the team and I always play for the team. It s not always nice to hear criticism, but that s football. I stay focused on the field. I always give my all. Then, I try to make big benefits and give the best of myself. I am a person who tries things. We always grow and learn. I m still young. I have goals, we have goals. We want to go to the World Cup. He says he enjoys playing in a more forward role in midfield. The Frenchman has found himself primarily being used as a defensive midfielder under Jose Mourinho this season usually starting in front of the back-line in a 4-2-3-1 formation.At times he has played behind the lone striker, but once again for France on Monday night he featured alongside Blaise Matuidi just in front of the defence.Pogba netted a brilliant long-range goal as his side recorded a 1-0 win over Holland in their latest World Cup qualifier. And after the match the 23-year-old admitted playing further forward, as he did for Juventus prior to his 89m move to Manchester United, is his preferred position.He said: I try to adapt myself (in my new position in midfield). I am a player who will rather (push) forward. The coach gave me instructions, I try to follow them. I have to be more sober and clean, I have to retrieve balls and make defensive efforts. It cost me a bit to play differently, much like (Andrea) Pirlo. I have to play, be there to recover and play more for the team. Our goal is to go to the World Cup. Today, we took some good points. It was a good first half and it was a little more labourious second. But we re happy. Having helped France to two wins from two matches over the international break, Pogba will now return to United s training base as he prepares for their upcoming visit to Anfield to face rivals Liverpool next Monday night.Meanwhile, Pogba gave the perfect response to recent criticism of him by scoring for France on Monday night, according to Hugo Lloris.Pogba, who joined United for a world-record 89million fee this summer, is yet to hit top form back at Old Trafford. But the 23-year-old scored the winner from distance in France s 1-0 World Cup qualifying win over the Netherlands on Monday night.And Tottenham goalkeeper Lloris believes the midfielder is beginning to get back to his best. He s a warrior in his mind, Lloris told ESPN. That s the most important thing. Of course he s very talented but in football talent is not enough, and in his mind he s very strong, and very ambitious, so he s going to improve step by step and he will arrive at the level that he wants. Especially after his transfer record, there is a lot of expectation around him. But I think today he showed the perfect response. He helped the team to get the three points, he was decisive today and maybe he will give us confidence for the next few games. Pogba will be hoping to guide United to victory when they resume club duties away to Liverpool next Monday (9pm). The Daily Express.