Flashback: Kim steps a pace ahead of her mother Kris Jenner and the Momager s love, Corey Gamble, during Parisian Fashion Week activities last monthNEW YORK. Pascal Duvier, the mammoth security ace for Kim Kardashian and her relatives, continues to work for the family in the wake of the socialite s robbery last week in Paris. The 43-year-old protector manned the platform Kanye West performed on during the Chicago stop of his Saint Pablo tour on Saturday, which marked the Famous singer s first performance in the wake of the $10 million heist.The 39-year-old, who cancelled gigs in Detroit and Philadelphia following the family crisis, told concert goers that it s good to be home , but did not mention the recent robbery.In the wake of the violent crime &#8211; in which the 35-year-old reality star had a gun pointed at her before she was locked in a closet while robbers ransacked the home she was at &#8211; the spotlight has turned to the security professional, who accompanied Kourtney Kardashian and Kendall Jenner to a party at the time of the incident. Kanye is evaluating his family s needs, the source said. He is ultimately the one who decides what happens with Pascal. The source said that Pascal still works for them, (but) he isn t irreplaceable though. The family really likes him, but he is not a family member .His employment remains squarely in the hands of the Yeezus rapper, a family insider told People. A separate source told the publication that the guard s whereabouts that evening were par for the course, as he regularly provides security for the whole family &#8211; not just Kim. It wouldn t be strange for Pascal to be dispatched to be with Kourtney or the other family members once Kim was safely in her residence. The speculation comes on the heels of the DailyMail.com s exclusive report that Duvier &#8211; who removed all allusions to the reality star on his social media accounts &#8211; was dealing with major financial problems in his Germany-based security firm, ProtectSecurity. The company &#8211; which has also provided muscle for entertainers such as the Black Eyed Peas, Katy Perry and Justin Timberlake &#8211; was in the hole more than $1 350 000, according to bankruptcy documents filed July 22. There is so much debt, an attorney working on the case told DailyMail.com. There are many claimants. I cannot say the exact number. Lots. Law enforcement in Paris have not taken anyone. - dailymail.