Apostle ChiriseriHerald ReportersFounder of His Presence Ministries International Apostle Charles Chiriseri, who died in a car accident on September 15, will be buried at Lady Stanley Cemetery in Bulawayo tomorrow (Saturday). Apostle Chiriseri s burial had been deferred to allow his wife, Senior Pastor Petunia Chiriseri, enough time to recover from the accident.Pastor Petunia Chiriseri was this week discharged from Mater Dei Hospital and is still recovering at home.A church service was held yesterday at Celebration Centre in Harare while another one will be held at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair Hall Number 3 in Bulawayo tomorrow.According to the family, the Bulawayo service, which is going to start at 8am, will be streamed live on the Apostle Charles Chiriseri YouTube channel.Speaking during the church service in Harare, Apostle Chiriseri s brother, Pastor Stanley Chiriseri described him as a humble man who united the family. He was the head of the Chiriseri family from the time that we lost all our parents. We all looked upon him. We are still shocked and saddened by his death. I know everything happen for a reason and that God has not forgotten about us, he said.Pastor Stanley Chiriseri said some few weeks ago, he received a message from Apostle Chiriseri in which he said they should respect and always stand by their spouses. This was the last message I received from him before tragedy struck, he said.Dr Washington Rupapa, who represented the Evangelical Fellowship of Zimbabwe, said Apostle Chiriseri would be sadly missed . He will be sadly missed by the entire EFZ family. We would like to convey our deepest condolences to the Chiriseri family. It is also our hope that His Presence Ministries International will remain intact, he said.Apostle Chiriseri died on spot after the vehicle the couple was travelling in hit a donkey along the Harare-Bulawayo Road near Mbembesi. His wife sustained injuries and was admitted in the Intensive Care Unit at Mater Dei Hospital.The couple was travelling to Bulawayo to attend a funeral when tragedy struck at the 388km peg. Pastor Petunia Chiriseri is a member of the Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission, who was sworn in by President Mugabe on July 7, this year.His Presence Ministries International has branches in the United Kingdom, South Africa and 10 branches across Zimbabwe.