At the Gallery The National Gallery of Zimbabwe is set to have a foundational course in digital photography with accomplished photographer Nyaradzo Muchena as the instructor. The lessons expected to last six weeks, are open to anyone with a desire to gain extensive knowledge in how to consistently create images that can be published in magazines, documentary photography and that can be hung on walls of art galleries and museums.This is an opportunity not to miss as it will give aspiring photographers an opportunity to get professional guidance and advice on hand, to expand their knowledge on camera techniques and to get inspired and motivated in their passion for photography by someone who is already established and is doing well in the industry.Muchena has been in the photography industry for years and has exhibited his work at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe and the 13th Edition of Gwanza Month of Photography in collaboration with Njelele Art Station Moonwalking exhibition and many other places.Muchena s broad range of knowledge will offer the students expert advice on a number of topics ranging from general camera controls to advanced camera techniques. The lessons offer an opportunity to young photographers to learn from a true expert, while developing their own style and technique in photography.As an experienced instructor, Muchena will help the student s master technical skills while providing ample time for participants to explore their own vision. With expert guidance, creative insight becomes more acute allowing the students to develop their own personal style and to expand their creativity. Moreover, the creation of an image depends on technique. There are many options for capturing an image with different types of film, cameras, and lighting sources.There are also different ways to render the images in final form that is in prints, slides, transfers, projections and Websites. The goal for photography lessons at the Gallery is to allow students learn about the correct exposure and how to use filters so that they can have a depth of understanding in camera techniques and their effects on the resulting images.The students will also get a shot at constructive critique on the work they have done. Feedback from a knowledgeable photographer and from fellow students will provide the young photographers rewarding insights into how others perceive their work and help them identify areas in which they need to improve.The lessons are not going to be a one way street but will involve interaction between individuals and fellow photography lovers and the instructor for valuable learning experiences. In addition, this is an opportunity for students to practice what they learn.The lessons which begin November 11, 2016 and are done every Saturday from 9am to 11am, cost $10 per lesson. At the end of the six-week long classes, students will receive attendance certificates. Registration forms are available at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe website.The National Gallery is an institution that seeks to promote talent, creativity and visual heritage through local and international platforms, and such lessons on photography show how it continues to expand its scope of education programmes through offering comprehensive curriculum in terms of arts education. We are the hub of experience in artistry production and with this initiative we hope to nurture more professional photographers that are able to stand their own ground as artistes and to compete with other international photographers in the arts scene. Many people have already registered for the photography lessons and we continue to urge other aspiring photographers out there to come and register for the lessons so that they can gain more knowledge in the art of photography, said the curator for education at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe Tandazani Dhlakama.Aspiring photographers are encouraged to commit for the six weeks. There are many positive advantages that come with completing a photography program that range from networking to learning about cutting edge camera techniques and exposure to different types of photography.