Takemore MazuruseArts Correspondent &#8212; Warren Park residents were on Saturday night treated to good local entertainment at Wheel and Ease Bar, popularly known as PaWezhaz, as established and upcoming musicians took turns to entertain them. The free entry event was organised by The Hub-Meeting of Minds, a business and networking platform which brings together business people, artistes, promoters and professional Zimbabweans from all walks of life to celebrate their diversity while creating networks and opportunities for personal advancement and business growth.Established and upcoming artistes among them Edith WeUtonga, Claire Nyakudyara, Ammi Jamanda, Tawanda Mwana WaCharie, Sasha, Wanai, Chirandu, Benjamin Chidewe, Samukoko, Marcy and D-Blok among others gave top-notch performances.One of the performing artistes at the event, Tawanda Mwana WaCharie said it was humbling to have an opportunity to showcase their talents while learning from the experiences of established business executives who gave inspiring testimonies and speeches. I am one person who believes in the power of networking and I am greatly encouraged by the opportunity and platform we are getting under The Hub banner. My act is getting better, and I even had enquiries from promoters here. The address by the guest of honour was a major highlight for me and I believe my brand as a musician will benefit from this, he said.Pro Air International managing director George Munengwa gave a keynote address and encouraged the audience to pursue their dreams.Other proprietors at the event were Wheel and Ease owner Exevia Wezhaz Maoneke, Jive Zimbabwe director Benjy Nyandoro, Club Joy Centre proprietor David Mudzudzu, Nash Paints chief executive officer Tinashe Mutarisi while non-performing musicians were Dino Mudondo and Carlos Green among others. Success does not come easy in whatever endeavour. I encourage everyone of us to strive for perfection in whatever area you are pursuing. Dreams can be achieved as long we take the daily steps towards them. Even as artistes, we need to create brands that outlive us and we can only do that if we stay focused, Munengwa said.The Hub-Meeting of Minds chairman Takemore Mazuruse thanked the sponsors of the event and the artistes for unity of purpose in their pursuit of excellence. This is our first ever get together as The Hub and I want to thank our sponsors, the artistes and Warren Park residents for this coming together of minds. As you can see people are having free beers and braai while networking, said Mazuruse.