COLOMBO. In Kusal Mendis, Sri Lanka now have a young gun they can build their team around for an extended period of time. Young gun Kusal Mendis continued to torment Australia on their tour of Sri Lanka as he peeled off a composed 69 from as many balls. The 21-year-old was a revelation throughout the Test series and carried that form into the one-day internationals, regularly navigating the hosts out of early trouble and often into a position of strength.Following the retirements of the irreplaceable Mahela Jayawardena and Kumar Sangakkara, Sri Lanka now have a batsman from which they can build their team around for an extended period of time. He has been absolutely brilliant for us over the Test series and in the first couple of one-dayers, Mathews told the media. He s going to be a big player for us. He s going to be the future of our batting. If he keeps going like this he will do wonders for the Sri Lanka team, and I wish him all the very best. Mathews marvelled at Mendis ability to counter-attack. He s just very positive, Mathews said. Especially after losing a couple of wickets in quick succession, the way he went out there and the way he batted was brilliant. Not too many people do that. You take a bit of time and settle in and take a look at the wicket. But he s just going out there and playing with a lot of freedom. He s just a different kind of player. A strong start to the ODI campaign follows a breakthrough Test series for Mendis that included his maiden Test ton in a phenomenal innings in the series opener at Pallekele Stadium.Arriving at the crease for the second innings with his team 2-6 and still 80 runs in arrears, Mendis compiled a breathtaking 176 in a match where no one else scored beyond 55.Following the completion of the series sweep last week, Mathews heralded that particular knock as the catalyst for the domination that followed. The key point I thought was Kusal Mendis innings that was the turnaround for the whole series after getting all out for 117 at Pallekele, Mathews told reporters. It was a special effort by him to get us on to a winning track. From there onwards it really kicked off. The confidence levels were sky high from there. Mendis only has nine Tests and nine ODIs to his name, but recent evidence certainly suggests Sri Lanka s future looks vastly brighter than it did three months ago. cricket.com.au