Tawanda Matanhire Arts Correspondent Zimbabwe and Italy-formed group, Zimboita gave a memorable performance at the just ended Musica 2016 held at the Italian Embassy last Friday. The group kept the crowds on their feet as they delivered one of the best performances at the festival. Zimboita consists of Blessing Bled Chimanga, who plays marimba and also provides lead vocals, while Matteo Boldini is on keyboard, Max Covini plays the drums while Raymond Mupfumira is on bass.Bled said that they were looking forward to Musica 2016 and had prepared for it very well which made them deliver a well to do act. We really did our best in preparing for Musica 2016 and as a team are happy that our fans loved the show, Bled said.Bled was at his best and wowed the audience with his amazing dribbles and off-beat strokes on the drum that he backed with some pure Afro-centric vocals getting the crowd to respond in wild roars and danced to his tunes throughout the whole act. He said it was an opportunity to also prove that music has no barriers as it can cut across different cultures. This was an opportunity to prove that music is so strong in communicating as it can cut across all divides of cultures without even understanding vernacular languages, Bled said.Not to be outdone was Italian Ambassador, Enrico De Agostini, who totally ripped the dance floor apart with his energetic moves leaving the whole crowd with no option but to join in as he had created a conducive celebration mood for the night. Ambassador Agostini said he was happy that the Festival was much bigger and will continue to raise the hype for the annual event. Am so glad we have successfully hosted Musica 2016 and we will even grow this annual event bigger, he said. Amongst other performers was superstar, Oliver Mtukudzi who also delivered several songs including Neria which featured Italian artistes to the cheer of the crowd. Fashion designers also took the opportunity to showcase their talent as models displayed some of their latest trends.Musica 2016 Festival took place in several venues across Harare including Amanzi, Megga 2, Music Crossroads Academy, Pabloz and The Venue in Avondale. Musica 2016 also featured world acclaimed guitarist Andrea Valeri and musician Shayna Steele.