Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis Last week we started on an interesting subject of developing oneness in marriage and family life. We discovered that communication and understanding our different backgrounds is important in developing oneness, unity and love in the home. We need to dig holes and build nests for our marriages and not leave them exposed to the harsh winds that blow! We will take a step closer today, read on! Double Portion blessings in your marriage and family life are yours! And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Luke 9:58-59The position of a man in the relationship was specifically stated in Genesis. Man was given headship and responsibilities. This meant that he was to be the primary protector and provider of his family.He has to provide the needs of his family. You see we don t want a head of the train that is taking the strokes nowhere but just making noise. Hear me men you are the head of the train and you need to be going somewhere! The head must know where it s going; otherwise the whole train will fall off the cliff and mountains of life!But bishop you are being too tough on us men, things are difficult these days! Yes things are difficult but you are still the head of the house and should take the family in a good direction! For example when you marry and you are lodging, at least two or three years down the road you should begin to talk about applying at Council for your own stand and making some enquiries.How can you watch news together with your wife and hear a national program helping people to build houses and you don t even discuss about it or find out more! When the wife says have you heard what the news is saying? Husband replies, so you think I don t have a head with ears? No it s not that you don t have a head with ears, it s just reminding you! Musoro ngauve nedirection!Encourage each other to have your own houses and properties. You see we are the same people with those in whose houses we lodge in. It s just that they had a dream and a passion, and took some action! It could be being on City Council waiting list do it!To be a good provider and protector you must communicate properly with your spouse. If your communication is quarrelling, you start a good story but wonder how you got in the heated argument. You hear the other angrily saying unoziva kuti ndinokugadziraka (clinching fists), You know I will fix you? Come on, in this day and age?The sad thing is some marriages extend their frustrations to abusing and extremely beating up children. Yes the bible says the whip was made for the back of a fool but you can t viciously whip your child all over legs hands back everywhere without any mercy. No.You have got to develop oneness in attitude toward set goals. Do you know to have things it s not to have money but to have oneness? From today begin to communicate well and about aiming to be somewhere by this time next year in 2017. Hear me men, hear me women develop oneness of spirit in any circumstance, all circumstances! Share the little and all you have and God will bless your marriage greatly.Don t let the other suffer and go without a cent and say because she is just sitting at home, No! The head doesn t talk that way. Do you know even if your wife works and earns money she still needs to have something from you her husband?You know people can fight for one problem for years and their problem never end? The thing is we don t fight the problem and confront it, we fight each other. No, fight the problem! O hallelujah, it s possible, it s possible!Don t say my cars, my house no, the correct language in the home is, our cars, our house, our money! In fact in my years of being a Pastor I have discovered that mostly, men waste resources more than women. One guy can buy the whole beer-hall a pint of beer and eat braai then go home without a cent! When you work as a team you will come up with good answers. Never allow problems to pile up. Don t say ah ndanyarara zvangu andichina chekutaura, how can my spouse be like a Grade 4 student? Speak words of life in your home! When you have two different agendas take one at a time. Prioritise!Another thing to set and go for is to aim to finish lobola! Don t go for years and have many children some now Form 1 yet you still owe your in-laws lobola! Work it out! You see don t go very far in life if you don t aim at anything.I want to challenge you men, women do the impossible! Despite the hardship around us yes you can thrive and live a good, blessed marriage.As you pursue your goals don t forget to enjoy; a good meal, a day out, a holiday whatever it takes; for you have one life and one family! I pray for you! God bless you! For with God all things are possible; Mark10:27.[email&#160;protected]