Exam season is here and thousands of local students will be sitting for different exams from Grade 7 up to university.It s a time of nervous tension all round, so how can the candidates minimise their stress levels while maximising their marks View your mind as a carpetThe annoying thing about knowledge is that it s all tightly rolled up inside your head; you can t just spread it out on the floor, like a Persian rug, and see where the gaps and threadbare bits are.In terms of revision, however, your job is to try to achieve this overall panoramic picture, to identify not just what you do know, but what you don t.Buy large sheets of paperPreferably A3 size. First, write out your entire exam timetable on one page and stick it on your wall. Second, create an at-a-glance overview of any given topic; if you re revising Jane Austen s Emma, for example, make one column for the heroine s good points (kind-heartedness, etc) and one for her bad points (bossy, over-active imagination). Or if it s history, devote one column to the Social Advances brought about by the French Revolution and another to the Human Costs.Memorise with your handsWhen you re revising, don t just read, make notes as well. Sitting there, passively flicking through pages, is a bit like self-hypnosis; after a while, you just tune out.Making notes is a positive act of fact-selection, like picking fruit. Especially if you use your own shorthand language (eg Gladstone was a weirdo, Disraeli was flash, the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was a stitch-up).Rediscover crayons (or rehydrate your felt tips)Colour coding is a huge help when it comes to marshalling your thoughts and your revision notes. The great thing about colours is that they work as a visual mnemonic; so underline Oliver Cromwell and the Roundheads in drab brown, while allocating a flamboyant purple to Charles I and the Cavaliers, and highlight the dates of military encounters (Battle of Naseby, 1645) in blood-red. It helps to make boring facts just that little bit easier to remember.Give yourself a breakOf at least 10 minutes every hour. And don t do more than three hours at a time; the brain can t take it. Best to make a plan of how many hours revision you intend to do say six hours a day for 10 days and then allocate how many of those 60 hours you re going to give each subject (allow more for the ones you find hard).Work your parentsPreparing for an exam is a bit like being pregnant, in that you re perceived as being in a delicate condition. You can take considerable advantage of this attitude to ask your parents for all your favourite meals and edible treats, but make sure to stress that these requests are revision-related ie, to keep you going in between Coastal Erosion and French Vocabulary. That way, you might just avoid getting a side order of nagging with your food.Go to sleepNot over your books (dribble smudges the ink), but at your normal bedtime, maybe drifting off as you listen to your favourite soothing music on an iPod or the radio.Definitely no late-night, eve-of exam cramming, though. Rather than adding reinforcements to the massed ranks of facts at your command, knowledge recruited after 10pm will, by next morning, spread wooziness and you ll fight your exam battle in a thick mist.Tell them nothingYour classmates, that is. Before the exam begins, try to keep your mind focused on the six things you ve got to remember about the conductivity of metals or the Treaty of Versailles, rather than chatting to your friends about what happened over the weekend. And after the exam s over, don t stand around comparing notes about how you all did. It will only depress you to realise that you ve written three pages about Pitt the Elder when the question was on Pitt the Younger.Remember to breatheMost of us manage to stay alive by snatching gulps of air through our mouths. But to ensure maximum levels of oxygen to the brain, thereby allowing access to the most hard-to-reach irregular verbs, it is essential for the exam candidate to sit down and take six deep breaths in through the nose (both nostrils) and out through the mouth.Imagine you re inhaling knowledge and expelling doubt. Then pick up your pen and make your parents proud. Daily Telegraph.