1 Thessalonians 5 vs 18 In everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. The reason for living is one of the most fundamental issues that many people struggle with on a daily basis. Why do I wake up in the morning, what is my purpose and, how do I know whether I have had a productive and fruitful day? What constitutes productivity? Is it being employed, running a business or having some sort of occupation that you can refer to as work?The motions of life are unending, it s a continuous cycle where you sleep, wake up, sleep again and so on. How you spend this time is dependent on what has been made possible in your life.For many people, the ability to dream, pursue those dreams and have something to be happy about at the end of each day is as elusive as finding a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.When your ability to work, grow, succeed and live like you desire is being hindered by circumstances beyond your control, it can discourage you to the point where you give up trying. Being discouraged can be so overwhelming that it makes you sink to depths that can be very difficult to resurface from. During those moments we can lose track of the fact that, through it all, there are still things that we can be grateful for.I was told a story of a homeless person who met a young man who had run away from home, when the homeless person asked the young man why he had left home he said he was trying to find a better life. The homeless man then shared some wisdom that his mother had taught him with the young man. He said, my mother taught me that each day you must always find ten things to be grateful for, find a honey pot for everything you want to say thank you to God for.We are all in this place where the grass always looks greener on the other side. We are always wishing for something we don t have that somebody else has. No matter what we have, we are never really satisfied.Amidst all the difficulties we face, we can always find ten things that we are grateful for. If a homeless man with very little hope can find things to say thank you for, with a smile and a ray of hope in his voice, surely you and I can also draw up our own daily list.We must not only look focus on the problems we have but we should also acknowledge the blessings that we have been given. Even when hope may have been lost or the possibility of anything good has been squashed, we must remain positive.Find ten things to say thank you for each day, remembering that in these ten things lie your honey pot; your blessing from above.Be blessed!For More Info:Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.orgEmail us on [email&#160;protected]Catch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours&nbsp;