Lovemore Meya: Cool Lifestyle CorrespondentThe concept of catch them young always yields positive results when applied correctly and the same goes for nine-year-old athlete Obey Makamu who surprised all and sundry during the 10-kilometre Old Mutual Half Westgate marathon. So thrilling was the race that saw people from all walks of life waking early in the morning to outpace each other in the vigorous and strenuous exercise.By exactly 6am last Sunday, over two thousand athletes including the wheelchair ones, young and old convened for different purposes but to the elderly, it was for exercising.The diminutive Makamu who came all the way from Bulawayo s Emgamwini and doing his primary education at Samatonga Primary School, surprised many.Cool Lifestyle caught up with the young athlete soon after completing the 10km race where he was number 56 and shared his experiences. Racing is actually in my genes after having started practicing at the age of four where I would complete round in a football pitch, said Makamu. People used to say that my father (Brian) was abusing me since I was still young. However, my father told them that one day, his efforts would pay off when something positive starts coming my way. Today, I completed 10km and I loved it because it was refreshing to race in a different location and new route. A lot of people were surprised to see me being on the starting point and thought it was a joke. Makamu is no stranger to different races as he has since written history by competing in difficult competitions. I have competed in a number of races including in Beitbridge where I won a trophy and medal and came out number eight at Nketa Park where I was number 14. Today s race was good but the position I completed on is no surprise to me since days are different. However, this is not going to put me off since racing is what I dream of everyday and during the race I never encountered any problems and completed it with ease. It was inspiring for me to compete with both young and older people, he said.He encouraged other aspiring young athletes to soldier on if they want to fully realise their potential. To all those young athletes willing to make it big in life, they should exercise vigorously and never give up when they lose during races. The pint-sized talented athlete said he wants to be a policeman when he completes his education. When I finish school I want to be a policeman so that I can arrest criminals and make the world a better place to live for everyone, he chuckled.Only the sky is the limit for the promising young athlete who is proving to be the shining star like motocross rider Tanya Muzinda.