Minister of Home Affairs Dr Ignatius Chombo (right) and Commissioner-General Augustine Chihuri look at some of the ZRP operational vehicles during commissioning in Harare yesterday. (Picture by Innocent Makawa)Move to bolster effectiveness against merchants of violence, errant motoristsFreeman Razemba: Crime ReporterPolice have acquired buses, utility trucks and traffic enforcement vehicles worth $1 million to be used to maintain law and order countrywide. The vehicles include two buses, 25 Ford Ranger single cab trucks and 28 traffic enforcement Ford Fiesta B-Cars. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony of the vehicles in Harare yesterday, Home Affairs Minister Dr Ignatius Chombo, said the two buses were outstanding from the previous delivery commissioned by President Mugabe in May last year.President Mugabe officially commissioned a fleet of 97 vehicles at a ceremony held at Morris Depot in May last year. The fleet included 77 trucks and 20 buses.Said Dr Chombo; So, today (yesterday), we are in essence commissioning 25 operational Ford Ranger single cab trucks and 28 traffic enforcement Ford Fiesta B-cars, which were purchased at a cost of $948 250. It is no doubt that this new fleet of vehicles will go a long way in enhancing your efforts in maintaining law and order, in particular, enforcing good behaviour by road users, Dr Chombo said.He said due to the high carnage on the roads, road safety was a matter of national urgency. Police Commissioner-General Dr Augustine Chihuri, said the force s visibility was a deterrent measure and essential ingredient to the prevention of crime.Some of the ZRP operational vehicles which were commisioned by Minister of home affairs Dr Ignatius Chombo in Harare yesterday.(Picture by Innocent Makawa) Consequently, with these additional vehicles, the Government has obviously extended to us the armour and ammunition to swiftly respond to the demands and dictates of policing services, he said.Dr Chihuri lauded President Mugabe s continued support of the force including replenishing the force s aging vehicle fleet. For some time now, Honourable Minister (Dr Chombo), the ZRP has been grappling with and aching of the adverse consequences spawned by an aging inadequate vehicle fleet. Service delivery by the 17 police operational provinces, various stations and sections, demands not only that police officers be readily accessible as and when required by our clientele, but also maintain enduring presence and visibility, he said.Dr Chihuri said the force was aware that peace could never be provided on a piecemeal basis and should be sustained at all costs and times. Peace is just like a balloon, once perforated, no matter how small the puncture may be, it becomes useless and a candidate for the trash-bin. This is the reason why we get extremely perturbed when criminally-minded people take peace for granted, juggle with it and putting unnecessary dents on it, he said.He said the vehicle was going to further burgeon the efficiency and effectiveness of police officers in dealing with merchants and architects of the wave of violence, which was currently threatening national security. We always stand ready to lawfully and decisively deal with criminal malcontents, who quite often, are drenched in sheep skins when in actual fact they are shameful agents of the tired crusade of the illegal regime change agenda in Zimbabwe. The law will indeed be applied squarely, fairly and without fear or favour, Dr Chihuri said.&nbsp; 