Takudzwa Chitsiga and Tedious Manyepo TITLE-CHASING CAPS United will be without influential centre-back Stephen Makatuka when they travel to Beitbridge for a date with relegation-haunted Border Strikers on Sunday. Makatuka is one of the six players suspended for Week 26 after accumulating three yellow cards. The CAPS United vice-captain is one of the main reasons why Makepekepe are only a point adrift of pacesetters FC Platinum as he has always stood firm in defence. The Green Machine are searching for their first league title in 11 years.Veteran striker Leonard Tsipa believes the absence of Makatuka will be a major blow to the team. We are well prepared for the match and everyone is looking forward to it. Makatuka has been influential and his absence for the Border Strikers game will be a major blow. We will, however, try our best to come out with something positive and we know how tough our opponents are but we will do our best. The team works as a unit and we have enough cover, so I don t think it will be much of a crisis at Dulivadzimu. The good thing is everyone is working hard and we hope to continue doing well until the end, said Tsipa.The eight players suspended for this weekend include the Bulawayo City duo of Innocent Kutsanzira and Mkhululi Moyo, Hwange s Obert Moyo, Ngezi Platinum s Talent Chamboko, Victor Kamhuka of How Mine, Winston Mhango of FC Platinum and Border Strikers Godfrey Mukambi.Meanwhile, CAPS United supporters yesterday joined hands to support the team when they bought them refreshments after their workout at the National Sports Stadium. Deputy national chairman of CAPS United Soccer Supporters, Ruzani Masango, said this was meant to motivate the players. It is a way of saying thank you to the players for their efforts and to show that we are together as we chase the championship, which we believe the destination is in our own hands, Masango said.Fixtures Saturday: Ngezi Platinum Stars v Tsholotsho (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Triangle (Nyamhunga), How Mine v Mutare City Rovers (Luveve), Harare City v FC Platinum (Rufaro), Chapungu v Highlanders (Ascot).Sunday : Bulawayo City v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Hwange (Rufaro), Border Strikers v CAPS United (Dulivadzimu).