Tafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter Despite the hot weather in the afternoon, many people thronged Glamis Arena for the Sinach concert which saw the musician delivering an electrifying and spiritually uplifting performance. Sinach (real name Osinachi Kalu) wowed the crowd with some of her hit songs such as Way Maker , From Glory to Glory , Awesome God and I Know who I am among others.The Nigerian sensation said she was happy to be back, praising and worshipping the Lord. Zimbabwe I love you, when I was coming here I asked God, which songs I should sing for this nation. So my playlist is already blessed and approved by God. This is for you, whatever you want is already done. You are blessed, she said.She later wished Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Walter Mzembi all the best on the upcoming elections for the UNWTO posts. Her band members first warmed the stage for her and they included Assent Tweed who, however, failed to live to expectations.The event, which started in the afternoon with some local acts such as UFIC choir, Heartfelt choir, Zimpraise choir and Minister Amos Mahendere among others, lived up to its billing although Sinach came on stage a bit later than expected.Among the choirs, Zimpraise did well with their scintillating performance as they rekindled their romance with fans as they sang popular hit Sungano . Minister Mahendere, who introduced his wife Vimbai on stage as they sang Hololo together, drove the crowd into frenzy.He dished out some of the crowd s favourite tunes such as Makanaka Jesu , Musandipfura and Mumoyo among others. Mahendere later sampled songs from his upcoming album, Getting Personal with God 3 , which include Salt of the Earth and Chiiko which features South African star Loyiso.However, it remained doubtful if the so called VIP tickets were truly sold out as the organizers once announced before as around half of the arena was still empty by 7pm. The tickets were going from $25 to $200 while for the rest of the ground tickets were selling at $10.Some ushers later told those seating in the other VIP section to fill the gaps and move closer as Sinach was about to perform. There was no more demarcation as those who had paid $200 and $25 ticket-holders ended mingling in the same section.Sinach DVD s were going being sold for $25 while local groups were selling theirs from $10. Star FM duo Napoleon Nyanhi and Nicola Dora affectionately known as Nikki were the masters of ceremony and did well as they not only related with the crowd but manage to keep things alive.Both lightning and sound were of high magnitudeThe event saw Minister Walter Mzembi and wife Barbra Hernandez Mzembi, Mrs Universe Zimbabwe Tracey-Anne Buckley Aggett, child president Tineyi Mbavari and Zimbabwe police commissioner general s wife Isabel Chihuri in attendance.