Isdore Guvamombe: ReflectionsBack in the village in the land of milk, honey and dust or Guruve, the more a monkey climbs up a tree the more it exposes its genitalia. The full import of it being that at times, the more effort you put to escape the truth the more you expose your essentials. Having grown up in the village trying every sporting activity available, with very little resources imagined by the fattest human mind, sport has always been in my blood. To date, this villager keeps an athletic body that makes many pot-bellied colleagues of his generation green with envy. Call it the six pack in modern lingo.So when the RIO Olympics 2016 came, this villager, the son of a peasant, as usual developed interest, for several of Karitundundu s descendants stolen by history, colonialism and white capital greed and thrown into yonder Europe, catapulted, backed, grilled and regenerated then packed as black Americans, black French or rather black Europeans, participate and normally win medals.The white capitol is happy with these blacks for their sporting prowess: talk of Bolt, the Williams etc and the list is endless, for they bring borrowed fame and massage Uncle Sam s ego to the point where if there was a pool where they could swim and come out white skinned, Uncle Sam would have smiled cheek to cheek into eternity. But that black colour always reminds us that black are Africans, does it not?Uncle Sam is so self-centred, is so paranoid to be the big winner all the time that he can do anything to win more medals and that includes cheating by doping and making sure that strong competitors are disqualified on cooked up charges. Ask Russia!The 2016 Rio Olympic Games showed us how the US and other Anglo-Saxon countries in their pursuit of world hegemony use dirty methods not only in politics, but also in sport. This time, the policy of double standards was used in point of doping.According to leaked World Anti- Doping Agency (WADA) database (that was hacked by a group called Fancy Bears), a number of top athletes mostly from US and Britain had permission to use elicit strong drugs justified by certificates of approval for disguised therapeutic use . The most shocking point is that some of these drugs are so serious that in some EU countries you can even be jailed for dealing in them without permission.In this case two serious questions should be raised:How serious should be the diseases if this drug is even impossible to buy in an ordinary pharmacy?And why is it that athletes with such diseases usually win gold, silver and bronze medals in international events when competing with healthy athletes?For example, we can take Simon Bales from US (4-time Olympic gold medallist and 10-time world gold medallist) who was taking a psychostimulant methylphenidate, or Williams sisters who used oxycodone, hydrornorphone, prednisone, prednisolone and methylprednisolone. And many others. What about 53 members of the British team who also used different kinds of drugs in 2016 Olympic Games?Isn t it an essence of fair competition when athletes are in absolutely similar conditions with no exception?This situation can only be likened to legalisation of doping in favour of Anglo-Saxon countries. But when compared to the treatment given to Russia, this is serious fraud. It stinks of fraud through and through. And we shouldn t forget the story about unprecedented WADA campaign against Russian Olympic and Paralympic teams? We probably should ask who sponsored the regime change in Rio 2016 Olympic sports?Strengthening of Moscow on the global arena, probably, provoked some Western sport officials to isolate a big group of Russian sportsmen from 2016 Olympic Games without having any kind of hard evidence. Isn t it an outrageous violation of human rights?These facts should make African leaders think over it. If WADA can isolate a whole nation from participation in international competitions, nobody is secure from it! If it happens in sport, what about politics?Read the full article on www.herald.co.zw&nbsp;