MahindraTinashe Makichi Motoring Correspondent &#8212; The Mahindra brand is very popular with Government departments and parastatals and has withstood durability tests. It is, in my view, one of the most underrated vehicle brands on the market even though it ticks all the boxes of adventure and luxury. Now available on the Zimbabwean market, the new Mahindra Bolero is here to meet all those adventure and luxury needs.The vehicle boasts multiple features such as a 2,5 litre for such a huge workhorse. It also has a turbo diesel engine, fender extensions, side steps and large load box area. Its signature front grille and solid stance give it a real presence on or off the road. Choose between 4&#215;4 or 4&#215;2, load box or dropside versions.The Mahindra Bolero makes hard work, so easy. It is a tough vehicle, which keeps you safe and comfortable even when you are carrying a heavy load. The vehicle is easy to maintain, fuel economical and offers utility, durability and reliability that is exceptional. Let this workhorse do the hard work for you. You just sit back, relax and enjoy the ride.The Mahindra Bolero has been designed to make any drive an easy and enjoyable one. The soft to the touch vinyl seat upholstery, comfortable armrests, ergonomically designed gear knob and easy-to-read instrument cluster are all created with your convenience in mind. And the list doesn t stop there. We ve thrown in door map pockets, rubber flooring and a space saving centre console to add to the comfort of the cabin as well as a powerful air-conditioning system (not available in dropside or loader models) that is sure to cool you down after a hard day s work, said Mahindra company.The Bolero comes with a high ground clearance, a B,75 metre turning radius for easy maneuverability and a hydraulic clutch for effortless gear shifting. A disc-drum brake combination prevents rear-wheel locking and stops the vehicle in its tracks.The low centre of gravity, wide radials and anti-roll bar give the Bolero anti-topple stability in uncertain driving conditions, with an extra thick corrosion-resistant sheet metal body barricading you against impact. For total peace of mind, the Mahindra Bolero comes standard with a two year 50,000 km warranty.From cargo to crates, sand to scaffolding, the Bolero is built to carry any load. The load box is capacious with a maximum weight of 1ton and a capacity of 2,520 m3.The high walls, fold-down panels and easy-to-clean surface of the load box make it highly functional, while the strong chassis provides the ideal base for heavy lifting.The Mahindra Bolero delivers 74 kW of power and 238 Nm of torque enabling great efficiency on any terrain. It pulls cleanly from 1,000 rpm in third gear, making it the ideal companion on dirt roads and rugged terrain.The vehicle is instantly recognizable as a member of the Bolero family, thanks to its bold front-end styling, emphasised by the vertically slotted grille, square headlights, extended bonnet and pronounced wheel arches. A large load box combined with the turbo diesel engine achieves an exceptional payload while achieving high fuel efficiency.Powered by Mahindra s 2,5- litre turbo diesel engine developing 4BkW at 3,200 rpm and 195Nm at qw21,400 rpm, the result is a vehicle that can be loaded to capacity, while still coping with the most challenging operating conditions &#8211; from steep inclines and compromised road surfaces to long distances and extreme temperature variations.Designed for rugged reliability, extended service life and superior low-down torque, the four-cylinder, direct injection unit is tough enough to cope with heavy loads.