Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports ReporterDOES Lloyd Mutasa s insinuations that some of his players sabotaged him in the Harare Derby against CAPS United have any merits or the Dynamos coach could just be looking for an escape from responsibility after his side imploded in an embarrassing manner? Mutasa charged after the match that he suspected some of his players could have connived against him when CAPS United staged a dramatic comeback scoring three goals in the last four minutes of the game which ended in a stalemate at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. It s painful to any coach for a team to give away a 3-0 lead just like that. We concede all three goals coming from the blind side and you ask the players whom you have assigned to check the blind side and they tell you we have been told to move away. I think those who watched the game saw what happened. To us it was almost like game over (when leading 3-0). As a coach you cannot go in and play. You can only, but assign people to do their duties. And if they cannot do that under such circumstances then you may end up thinking there is a hidden agenda behind it . . . For now I cannot say out names, but there are certain players who couldn t play to instructions. Instead of doing the defensive duties, some resorted to their own type of football, said Mutasa.He further questioned the commitment and calibre of the players while suggesting there could be an overhaul of the team. Obviously, we have to go back to the drawing board and look at (building) a team for the future . . . We may have to look for people who have the love to play for Dynamos, people who know what is expected of them when you play an opposition such as CAPS United, said Mutasa.Dynamos players had done everything correct for the most part of the match and their failure to hold on to such a healthy scoreline in the dying minutes has been the weekend fixtures major talking point.But Mutasa should take time to reflect on the events leading to the collapse. It is now becoming apparent that the Dynamos defence suffers a chronic lack of concentration especially when it comes to set-pieces.This was exposed when they lost to Highlanders 2-1 at Barbourfields when they leaked in two goals inside three minutes, one of them from a corner kick and another from a cross into the goal area.Again, last week they had Hwange in the bag after scoring early through Takunda Sadiki, but somehow in a momentary lapse allowed Hwange to claw back into the game and it ended 1-1 after failing to defend from a corner kick.But on Sunday they had done well, boosted by the return of Sydney Linyama to the starting team and with goalkeeper Ashley Reyners showing signs of brilliance early on.But they still capitulated courtesy of two late corner kicks and a freekick from the edge of the box.Secondly, complacency seemed to have gotten the better of both the Dynamos bench and the players.The way Murape Murape reacted to their third goal and in the process attracting the wrath of the match officials to expel him from the technical bench when the game still had 15 minutes remaining said it all.The injury to Stephen Alimenda who had provided balance in the midfield was a huge blow, but Mutasa s substitutions were atrocious.Dynamos were leading and they needed to safeguard their advantage. One would wonder what the technical bench was thinking when they replaced Alimenda with Wisdom Mutasa, an attacking player who is off form at the moment, at a time when Makepekepe were going for broke with defenders like Dauda joining in the raids.CAPS United called for more men into their attack introducing striker Amon Kambanje and mobile midfielders Kudzanayi Nyamufukudza and Moses Muchenje and one would have expected the opponents to reinforce their defence since they had the goals.But Mutasa threw into the fray three attack minded players in Valentine Ndaba, Tawanda Macheke and his son Wisdom. In the end it was his opposite number Lloyd Chitembwe s substitutions that paid the dividends.