Petros Kausiyo and Grace ChingomaCAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe has admitted the absence of chief striker Leonard Tsipa and Phineas Bamusi from their showdown with Dynamos has dealt them a huge blow. Chitembwe is also mourning his uncle and had to take time off from the CAPS United preparations for the crunch game to attend the funeral wake in Honde Valley yesterday.Tsipa and Bamusi are part of a seven-man list that has been slapped with one-match bans by the PSL.The others are gangly Chicken Inn centreback Lawrence Mhlanga, FC Platinum s defensive rock Gift Bello, Benson Phiri of Highlanders, Munyaradzi Kunyarimwe (ZPC Kariba) and Nickel Marichi of Tsholotsho.Tsipa, CAPS United and the league s leading scorer, grabbed the opener as the Green Machine powered to a 3-1 triumph over Border Strikers in Beitbdridge last Sunday.Bamusi and Tsipa were effectively ruled out of the showdown against DeMbare when they received their third yellow cards respectively against Borders Strikers.Tsipa was first cautioned in April against Harare City before being booked the following month against Border Strikers at the National Sports Stadium. We never had a full squad this season and we have been missing players through suspension and injuries, said Chitembwe. So it is not something new, we are mature enough to handle these kinds of situations as has always been the case so we should survive. Tough luck to them . . . I know they would have wanted to contribute in this match. Chitembwe, a CAPS United legend who is seeking to win the championship both as a player and coach, insisted they were not under any pressure going into the Harare Derby. All the games are the same and no match is more important than the other so the focus is always the same. The league race is not about us, but eyes are on all the teams chasing for the league title. As for us we are enjoying the moment, being on top of the log and there is no pressure or sleepless nights for us, said Chitembwe.CAPS United at the weekend welcomed back Tafadzwa Rusike, who had been sidelined for several weeks with an injury, with the winger also finding the target on his return.Chitembwe also has potential match winners in Abbas Amidu, Joel Ngodzo, Dominic Chungwa and Simba Nhivi.Tsipa bemoaned his absence from showdown in which CAPS United are seeking to complete a rare double over DeMbare in the Premiership derby clashes. It s disappointing to miss out because those are the types of matches that one will be looking forward to. But I believe in my teammates and I know they can do a better job anywhere. After the game in Beitbridge I knew I would be out as I had two yellow cards already, but there is nothing I can do. The good thing is that it s a one-match suspension. Derby games are always tricky because each and every player wants to prove a point, but I am sure the better team will win, Tsipa said.FixturesSaturday: Mutare City Rovers v Border Strikers (Sakubva, SS), Chicken Inn v ZPC Kariba (White City), Tsholotsho v Chapungu (Luveve), FC Platinum v Ngezi Platinum (Mandava).Sunday: Hwange v Harare City (Colliery), Triangle v How Mine (Gibbo), Highlanders v Bulawayo City (Barbourfields), CAPS United v Dynamos (National Sports Stadium, SS).