Paul Mundandi, in ZVISHAVANEFC PLATINUM are confident they will turn the tables on holders Harare City when the teams clash in the semi-final of the Chibuku Super Cup at Mandava this afternoon. The platinum miners are still bitter after losing 2-1 to their rivals in a league match two weeks ago at Rufaro.Giants Highlanders and newboys Ngezi Platinum will feature in another showdown at Barbourfields tomorrow.FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza knows he needs to win today to ease the pressure on his charges and also on himself after some fans turned against him.Club spokesperson Chido Chizondo yesterday said they were giving Harare City the respect they deserve. We respect Harare City. They are as very good side that also play entertaining football. They managed to beat us two weeks ago in the league tie and tomorrow (today) we feel it will be our chance to turn the tables. As an institution we need silverware and the Chibuku Super Cup is one of them. We still have the dream of venturing into Africa and we are going to give it our best to try and reach the final. It s only God who knows what will happen but we have the faith, said Chizondo.Mapeza and his technical team could not be reached as they have developed a tendency of switching off their phones and shunning members of the media in the countdown to matches.They only opt to give post-match interviews.FC Platinum will be hoping Walter Musona, who scored against Harare City, will be at his best to lead the attack.Harare City coach Moses Bambo Chunga is optimistic the Sunshine Boys will prevail.Ironically, Harare City are the home team but organisers opted to have the match at Mandava for television purposes. We are playing away from home although it is said we are the home team. But I am still looking forward to a positive result, said Chunga. We might have beaten FC Platinum but the game on Saturday (today) is a different game altogether. The match we played two weeks ago is now water under the bridge. I am at home everywhere in Zimbabwe. I fear no coach but I respect them. It will be good for Harare City to collect something at the end of the season. It s just sad that although we are the home team we will not have time to practice in our home ground. If I am a coach who believes in juju, it means I will also not have the time to plant my things in the four corners of the pitch. Such is Zimbabwean football but I am ready for the challenge. William Manondo returns to face former employers.Goalkeeper Tafadzwa Dube also used to be part of the FC Platinum family.Chibuku Super Cup FixtureTodayHarare City v FC Platinum (Mandava)TomorrowHighlanders v Ngezi Platinum (Barbourfields).