Chipo MnikwaTawanda Matanhire Lifestyle CorrespondentZambian-born Chipo Mnikwa has managed to put her brand onto the spotlight rendering her services to prominent personalities in Zimbabwe.Poda by chipo is a brand she founded as a makeup artist after being tipped by her friend Tariro NeGitare, a known musician.The talented artist looks up to Kemi Kings, an African makeup artist from Nigeria who has done so much to inspire make-up artists across the continent, as her role model. Her makeup studio which is located in the Avondale area few metres away from the shopping centre has become a hub of beauty for local celebrities and most of them highly appreciate her services.Mnikwa said that her passion for the make-up art began at a very tender age but her parents were sceptical about it and could not fully support her as they believed academics were more important. From a young age I ve always been passionate about makeup but my parents didn t think it was something that would make one earn a living, instead they supported me more in my academic work, Mnikwa said.After completing her A Levels she did banking and marketing courses which eventually landed her into the banking sector.She worked for Renaissance Merchant bank which later became Capital bank but during her spare time she would engage herself in part time make-up jobs since 2007 especially during weekends.She felt that she could not be stopped to do something that had made her feel fulfilled and so being a banker and marketer did not deter her from pursuing her dream.Chipo Mnikwa doing a client s face. I loved being a makeup artist though I was into banking and marketing because it would make me fulfilled, Mnikwa said. During the time I was working in the bank I would do weddings and my friend Cynthia Munro would go with me to the jobs and after the jobs we d spent the money on clothes and waffles. After working in the sector for close to five years the bank got into liquidation rendering her jobless as it was difficult to find another job.Mnikwa did not sit on her talent but instead she embraced the opportunity of working full time on what she loved the most and could not wait to get another job.During this period she set herself to improve on her skills. Fortunately, a makeup company opened in the city and contracted her to work as a makeup artist.She devoted much of her time and resources to the trade so that she would learn more.This investment paid off in 2014 after she opened her makeup studio to operate full time from her home but had difficulties in finding a name for it.She opted to calling herself Just Make Up Zimbabwe . After the bank got into liquidation I started doing makeup from home then I called myself Just Make Up Zimbabwe and I got clients coming, she said.This was the beginning of her lifetime dream of opening a better and more accommodating hub. With clients coming in their numbers, it helped her to fully establish herself in a better location to reach more clients.She would give her services to ordinary clients from all walks of life especially weddings. One day we were at home with my friends, I remember I was actually doing dishes and Tariro shouted saying poda by Chipo . Faith and I went to her and she said to me you do amazing makeup you can t call it just makeup let s call it poda by Chipo , she said.The name was catchy and identified with the Zimbabwean niche and so Poda by Chipo was born. I am forever grateful to Tariro Negitare for the name, she said The talented artist then started an academy were she was teaching people to be makeup artists.Many of the interns did very well and from her first class she recruited two ladies to work with her at Poda By Chido . This was the best decision I ever made because these ladies Yvonne and Sally do extremely well and have made my team so complete, she said.Mnikwa said that she has drawn inspiration from Gamuchirai Manyika popularly known as Makeup by Gamu. Gamuchirai is one person who inspires me in our industry. Those who know her will agree with me that she loves people with her whole heart. When the bank closed she took me in and motivated me to do makeup, she said.She also looks up to Zimbalashes who are also into make-up. She is now targeting the international audience for her clientele base.