Eddie Chikamhi Sports Reporter WILL there be more surprises in the Chibuku Super Cup quarter-finals this weekend?Giants CAPS United and Dynamos fell in the first round and now the spotlight is on defending champions Harare City, FC Platinum and Highlanders. Holders Harare City will get the ball rolling this afternoon when they square off against ZPC Kariba at Nyamhunga.But the big match of the weekend pits Highlanders against How Mine at Barbourfields tomorrow while log leaders FC Platinum travel to Gibbo for a tricky date with Triangle.Highlanders coach Erol Akbay was yesterday in high spirits.Bosso have won their last six competitive matches in a row. The risk (of complacency) is always there, but we have been trying every day to keep everyone focused. Of course, the guys are doing well. They are all enjoying playing football. There are always positive. It s good we have been winning games and if we can stretch that winning run to seven or eight games then we are happy with that, said Akbay.Bosso have welcomed goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda who has recovered from an eye injury he suffered in that last league match against Ngezi Platinum.Moses Chunga will lead defending champions Harare City into battle against his former mentor Sunday Chidzambwa s ZPC Kariba.The teams have played three times this year with the Sunshine Boys winning all three contests which included a 3-0 victory at Nyamhunga in the ZNA Charities.Chunga has recalled midfielder Tendai Samanja in the squad after a long time on the sidelines as he tries to add the experience to his side which now has a number of rookies.Chidzambwa believes his side have done their home work. We have prepared all week for this game. Remember this is the same team that beat us twice in the league this season so it means we have to fight hard to win that game. The guys are ready to battle, I believe. We have been driving home the point that the fact that we lost to them is now history. We have to focus on the task at hand, which is winning this quarter-final game so that we progress to the next stage of the competition, said Chidzambwa.Newboys Ngezi Platinum will host Tsholotsho at Baobab this afternoon hoping to continue with their fine run following that 3-1 thumping of Hwange in the first round.Chibuku Super Cup quarter-final fixturesToday: ZPC Kariba v Harare City (Nyamhunga), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Tsholotsho (Baobab)Sunday: How Mine v Highlanders (Barbourfields), Triangle v FC Platinum (Gibbo)