Flora Teckie A Bah PerspectiveThe world last week, on September 21, marked another International Day of Peace. It is timely to reflect on where we stand, and contemplate how we may achieve lasting peace. It is the Bah view that: the great peace long envisioned by the peoples and nations of the world is well within our reach. However, peace will not be achieved through banning nuclear weapons, prohibiting the use of poison gases and germ warfare, as these will not remove the root causes of war. There is need for change in individual attitudes and the creation of a universal framework to uphold peace. For the world peace to become a reality, we need to recognise our true nature as spiritual beings, and the purpose for which we were created that is to know and to worship God, and to carry forward an ever-advancing civilisation.Besides any new thinking about peace must begin with the belief in the oneness of humanity, with the ultimate goal being, not simply to end war and to create agencies of international cooperation, but unification of all the peoples of the world in one universal family. Peace, according to the Bah Writings, stems from an inner state supported by a spiritual or moral attitude, and it is chiefly in evoking this attitude that the possibility of enduring solutions can be found .Recognising our true natureDespite the acknowledgement of the reality of conflict and wars in many parts of the world, there is a paralysing contradiction. On the one hand, people proclaim not only their readiness but also their longing for peace, for an end to the war and conflict that is tormenting their daily lives. On the other, there is a belief that human beings are selfish and aggressive and therefore incapable of erecting a peaceful social system based on co-operation and reciprocity.It is the Bah view that . . . such conduct, far from expressing man s true self, represents a distortion of the human spirit. Human nature is made up of possibilities for both good and evil. True religion can enable it to soar in the highest realm of the spirit, while its absence can, as we already witness around us, cause it to fall to the lowest depth of degradation and misery. Understanding the true nature of human beings and guidance from religion: . . . will enable all people to set in motion constructive social forces which, because they are consistent with human nature, will encourage harmony and co-operation instead of war and conflict .Religion is a powerful force for motivating individuals to develop spiritual qualities and to contribute to the betterment of our communities. Religion has a limitless power to inspire change and long-term commitment in its followers, and a peaceful and prosperous global society cannot be built without directly and substantively involving religion.However, for religion to help in meeting the diverse challenges confronting the humanity today it must be free from fanaticism, prejudice and animosity. According to the Bah Scriptures: religion must be the source of fellowship, the cause of unity and the nearness of God to man. If it rouses hatred and strife, it is evident that absence of religion is preferable and an irreligious man is better than one who professes it . The recognition of the oneness of humanityThe unconditioned recognition of the oneness of humanity and the abandonment of all types of prejudice, in the Bah view, are vital for establishment of world peace. Adherence to this principle is not in conflict with legitimate loyalties and is not to undermine the diversity of ethnic origins that differentiate the peoples and nations of the world. It is a call for a wider loyalty to the human race and its watchword is unity in diversity . Unity in diversity implies the development in the individual of a global consciousness and a love for humanity as a whole. Only when we, as individuals, see ourselves as members of one human family, sharing one common homeland, we will be able to commit ourselves to the far-reaching changes, on the individual and collective levels, which an increasingly interdependent world necessitates.In every living organism there is a need for the complete harmony of many diversely functioning parts. No advanced living organism could consist of and function with identical cells and organs. This diversity of form and function is absolutely necessary for the life of any complex, well-developed organic entity.Furthermore, there is a direct, positive relationship between the level of development of the organism and the diversity of its cells and organs. Perfect functioning of the human body is due to the unity of diverse cells and organs. The same way well-being and well functioning of body of mankind is dependent on unity of its diverse elements of all races, nationalities, religions and ethnic backgrounds.We need to recognise that physical differences such as skin colour or hair texture are superficial and have nothing to do with any supposed superiority of one ethnic group over another. Humanity can be likened to a vast garden in which grow flowers of every form, colour and perfume. The charm and the beauty of the garden lie in this diversity.The Bah Writings state: God maketh no distinction between the white and the black. If the hearts are pure both are acceptable unto Him. Love ye all religions and all races with a love that is true and sincere and show that love through deeds and not through the tongue; for the latter hath no importance, as the majority of men are, in speech, well-wishers, while action is the best. Creation of a universal framework to uphold peaceIn the Bah view, a genuine universal framework must be adopted, in addition to recognition of the oneness of mankind and the abandonment of all types of prejudice, by individuals. It was during the 19th century when Bah u ll h first gave His proposals for the establishment of world peace. He suggested the creation of a world federation of nations in which all races, creeds and classes are united and the autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom and initiative of the individuals safeguarded.This federation will consist of a world legislature, which would enact the laws necessary to regulate the life, satisfy the needs and adjust the relationships of all peoples.It would have a world executive, backed by an international force which would carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws enacted by the world legislature. A world tribunal would adjudicate and deliver its final verdict in all disputes that may arise between the various elements constituting this universal system.Among the other principles of the Bah Faith that are vital for the establishment of peace are: the harmony which must exist between religion and science; the equality of men and women, universal compulsory education; the adoption of a universal auxiliary language; the abolition of the extremes of wealth and poverty and the confirmation of justice as the ruling principle in human affairs.Achievement of world peace, therefore, requires fundamental changes in our attitudes and by overcoming any lingering feelings of racism and national, religious, tribal or gender prejudices that we may, consciously or unconsciously, harbour. In addition, there is need for international institutions to regulate international affairs and for upholding peace.The ultimate goal, however, is not simply to end war and to create agencies of international co-operation. Its crowning goal is the unification of all the peoples of the world into one universal family.For feedback please contact:[email&#160;protected] or [email&#160;protected]