CALM BEFORE THE STORM . . . Acting President Phelekezela Mphoko (centre) is sandwiched by the two boxers, Charles Manyuchi (left) and Colombia s Jose Augustin Julio Feria, in Harare yesterdayGrace Chingoma Senior Sports ReporterACTING President Phelekezela Mphoko says boxing needs to be supported the same way the country supports other sporting disciplines like football and cricket. Speaking at his Munhumutapa offices yesterday, where he was introduced to all the boxers involved in the World Boxing Council extravaganza in Harare Friday, Mphoko said boxing in this country needed to be supported on a bigger scale.The boxing extravaganza, the biggest held in this country for some time now, will be headlined by the homecoming show of WBC silver welterweight silver champion Charles Manyuchi who will plunge in a non-title fight.Manyuchi, fighting on home soil since he made his mark as a world champion, will battle Colombian boxer Jose Agustin Julio Feria in eight rounds.There will also be a title fight on the night, a silver championship welterweight bout between Malawian Agnes Mtimaukanena and Lolita Muzeya from Zambia, which will be the main supporting bout to the main show.Also present at yesterday s event was Sport and Recreation Minister Makhosini Hlongwane, the Minister in the Vice President Mphoko s office, Tabitha Kanengoni-Malinga, and Deputy Minister of Tourism Annastasia Ndlovu.WATCH VIDEO This Friday, there is going to be a non-title fight between our visitor from Colombia and our own son Manyuchi, now let us support boxing in this country, said Mphoko. It is a very good sport, just recently we lost one of the world icons Muhammad Ali. We used to watch him on TV during his heydays. I remember I went to see a film on Muhamad Ali when he beat Sonny Liston and then we watched him in DRC (historic boxing event in 1974 in Kinshasa) This is a very important tournament, we would be having people from Zambia and Malawi coming to fight here in Zimbabwe. We must show our support. Manyuchi and your opponent, you will not end at this level, and I wish you should go higher and higher if it possible. I know boxing is also part of tourism and that is why the Deputy Minister of that Ministry is here. The Acting President also encouraged fair competition. All I want to say is that the best man wins, the best teams win, that is what we are expecting. I welcome everybody from Zambia from Malawi, these are two sister countries, we have been very close to them, said Mphoko.He also revealed that the fight was very important to the country and government. Manyuchi and Feria promised a good fight on Friday. I am not here to play, this is my country and I am the champion. I will take him as my student. I am a diplomat, said Manyuchi. I was preparing for the title fight and I am still fighting for a title fight. That day it would be a title whether there is no belt. I am a diplomat, I will take him as a diplomat also but I will teach him a lesson. I urge the fans to come in their numbers. I want to thank the Government of Zimbabwe for accepting this fight to happen in this country. It will mark the rise of the dead sport of boxing boxing in Zimbabwe. The Colombian, speaking through an interpreter, aid he was looking forward to a good fight. It is a pleasure to be in this country. I have come to fight a very good opponent. I am very pleased to express my gratitude to our promoter from Zambia. I thank you very much for this opportunity to be here. I am happy to be here for this fight and I am hoping to win the fight. I am hopeful that the fight will be a good one and I will win the bout. I have come to this country, from my country which is very far away, and I am sure I am going to have a good time and a good fight, he said.