Barbra MuzembiTawanda Matanhire Arts Reporter &#8212; Miss Tourism Zimbabwe organisers have officially announced anchor sponsors of this year s edition of the pageant. The rebranded Miss Tourism Zimbabwe 2016 will be held on November 25 at the Harare International Conference Centre and the main sponsors are Big Time Strategic Group and SA-Zim Business Connect.Announcing the sponsors on Tuesday at Pablo z club in Borrowdale, the matron of Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Barbra Mzembi said the pageantry industry in Zimbabwe had been damaged to the extent that most corporates no longer want to be associated with it. It s sad to note that the pageantry industry in the country has been quite damaged that corporates no longer believe in it. I struggled to make some believe in it. I wanted to lead by example and show everyone that pageantry can be of honour, good in marketing (strategies) and could be very useful for the girl child. I am grateful that we got a sponsor who is not based in Zimbabwe but was born in Zimbabwe, she said.She thanked the anchor sponsors saying that not many people believed in this vision from the beginning but they took it upon themselves to be involved in the pageant.She also revealed that the pageant s two princesses will be named Miss Agro-Tourism and Miss City Tourism.SA-Zim Business Connection president Justice Maphosa said their organisation s goal is to get Zimbabwe on its feet by helping fuel initiatives by local businesses people. We were born here and we are children of this country so we will come up with initiatives and come up with strategies that can assist Zimbabwe, he said.He also said that Big Time Strategic group has four ICT companies and is involved in aviation and property. We want to make sure Miss Tourism Zimbabwe is a success because we want to bring dignity to the girl child. We strive to make sure it s one of the best pageants and when my company is involved we make sure its the best thing that has been done. Miss Tourism Zimbabwe has also partnered with Childline Zimbabwe among other local companies that are still coming on board to take part.