Tedious Manyepo: Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS coach Erol Akbay could win the double in his maiden season if the Bulawayo giants triumph in both the Premier Soccer League championship and Chibuku Super Cup. Bosso have posted an impressive seven wins in a row to leapfrog FC Platinum into second position and are just a single point behind leaders CAPS United with three games to go. They are also in the last four of the Chibuku Super Cup where they face Ngezi Platinum in the semi-final at Barbourfields. It is very possible for the team to win a League and Cup double. That is obviously the pinnacle of success in as far as domestic football is concerned, said Akbay. We are well positioned to win the title as our rivals (FC Platinum and CAPS United) have shown that they can be vulnerable when it matters the most. On the other hand Highlanders have shown a lot of character, they are a team which is quite consistent. This is a team with players who want to play football, players who have the affinity for success. I think it is very possible for the group to achieve this feat. The message to my players has been very simple, enjoy your football and try to win. This weekend, Akbay s team takes on Ngezi Platinum in the Chibuku Super Cup semi-finals in a match which could prove to be tricky for the Bulawayo giants considering Ngezi Platinum have been posting good results in the tournament. I want to acknowledge Ngezi Platinum s fighting spirit. They have punched above their weight throughout the season. They are one of the most dangerous teams to face in the league. They have good players and an intelligent coach. No wonder why they have progressed this far in the tournament. I respect them very much. But, then I came all the way from the Netherlands to try and help Highlanders win trophies. We have been preparing well for the game which we have to win at all cost. We cannot talk of winning the double if we approach this game in a lackadaisical manner. It is a must-win for us. Everyone is raring to go. Highlanders overcame Mutare City 2-1 in the first round before accounting for How Mine in a penalty shootout while Ngezi Platinum beat Hwange 3-1 in the initial stage and dispatched Tsholotsho 4-1 in the quarter-finals.