Midlands BureauA GRADE Seven pupil at Murongwe Primary School in Mberengwa East experienced labour pains in the middle of her Zimbabwe Schools Examination Council (zimsec) national examination on Monday and was rushed home where she gave birth. The incident occurred when pupils were sitting for an English Paper 2 exam.The girl, whose name has been withheld to protect her since she is a minor, was rushed to her homestead, where she gave birth before being ferried to Murongwe Clinic nearby.The minor, whose age could not be established, was allowed to continue writing the exams from the clinic, with two invigilators supervising her.The girl from Mhepo Village under Chief Mataruse, gave birth minutes after shocking unsuspecting classmates and teachers at her school when she suddenly went into labour.Midlands Provincial Education Director Mrs Agnes Gudo confirmed the dramatic incident. She, however, could not shed more light on the matter, saying she was still waiting for a formal report from the responsible district. I am aware of the incident but I have sketchy details because I am yet to get finer details from the responsible district. I will be able to furnish you with more information once I receive a full report, she said.A relative to the minor, who spoke to Chronicle on condition of anonymity, said the girl, who had concealed the pregnancy, started experiencing labour pains while writing the examination.The relative said the minor concluded her examinations from a clinic bed under the watch of the two female teachers. She was rushed to Murongwe Clinic but she had already given birth. She was first taken home where she delivered before being taken to hospital. She had to finish her examination on her hospital bed, said the relative.He said it was agreed that she finishes other examination papers from her hospital bed since she was not fit to return to class.Mberengwa East MP Cde Makhosini Hlongwane bemoaned early indulgence in sexual activities by juveniles and school going children.He said early sexual activities resulted in unwanted pregnancies, which he said had negative ramifications in the future. It is an unfortunate situation that a Grade 7 pupil was impregnated and gave birth while writing national examinations. Government policy is to encourage the girl child to complete education and desist from indulging in sexual activities at an early age, he said. This has ramifications on their education trajectory. If we look deeper, the child could have been sexually abused by an adult, which itself becomes a rape case. 