Prophet PassionTafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Lifestyle WriterEveryone should have a least one me-themed party in their lifetime.Think of helicopters dropping the birthday boy or girl, the white horses, fireworks, surprise international guest performers and big cakes. A lot is spent on these to celebrate one day. When hip-hop moguls such as P Diddy, Jay Z and Birdman throw a party, it has to leave a mark not only in their life but to those invited too.Recently business tycoon Genius Kadungure, affectionately known as Ginimbi, hosted his birthday bash in Sandton, South Africa, and as usual it was themed white with strictly-by-invite set.His parties have not only continued to attract attention through expensive wines and food, but have also come with surprises each year because of mysterious dressing of those invited.Above all throwing a lavish party can cost you a fortune but that is the price of a celebrity.Still in October and in the mood for lavish parties, another one is set for today at Borrowdale Brooke Golf Course.Flamboyant church leader Prophet Passion Java (pictured) turns 29 today and a massive lavish party has been set.According to close sources, this time the birthday boy is set to make another record as he is expected to splash cash to invited guests.Yes, from having some of the hottest rides in town, a mansion and having a walking closet with some of the latest designer garments, it is expected of Prophet Passion to have a birthday party that can cost a fortune.By the way, the flamboyant prophet is not new to this phenomenon as years back he hosted three-day colourful birthday celebrations at three different venues exactly the P-Diddy style.Java had the whole of First Street closed and he rounded up 110 street kids before treating them to pizza, chicken and a $1 200 chariot birthday cake.It is said that the party then moved to a hotel with some of the Harare s who-is-who dining before feasting on a cake which had his picture and valued at $10 000.However, The Saturday Herald Lifestyle caught up with one of the party planners, Clifford Brutal, who was at Java s 12-roomed homestead at Borrowdale Brooke and said all is set for the lavish birthday party.Brutal said Java is jetting in today afternoon from South Africa with his wife where he had gone for some business meetings. We have set the stage, the marquee and now I am meeting with the cake boss to finalise on the touches and details. The birthday boy is jetting tomorrow afternoon (today) and, as you know, he has so much style and we are trying to do it according to his lifestyle. The tables will be coded according to the invite, so no gate crashers are expected and the number is limited and final, he said.Brutal said guests are expected by 4pm and they have a code they are to supply before entering. The programme will see top notch musicians performing with some having composed a celebratory song for the birthday boy. Java will come with his entourage around 6pm in a Rolls Royce vintage car before white horse riding. Some of the invited guests include flamboyant businessman and Zifa president Phillip Chiyangwa, Chamu Chiwanza and Java s neighbour businessman Eddie Nyatanga. Some of the guests have already arrived from South Africa, Jamaica, US and United Kingdom. Prophet loves the colour white and gold so somehow we are trying to match his standards, he said.Hollywood preacher of LA reality show and TBN television anchor Noel Jones has recorded a birthday message for Prophet Java which has gone viral on social media.Brutal said the birthday boy is expected to throw cash just like how P Diddy hosted his last birthday. Diddy is believed to have thrown $1 million cash in the crowd. The event is also a red carpet affair where a live recording on the best dressed will be conducted before they have a picture taken on the photo-booth with the birthday boy, he saidAsked how much the total budget for the party, Java s personal assistant said more than $50 000 was spent on planning the party. Our venue charges about $35 per person and we have invited 200 guests who are also going to get some surprise treaties. We also want to thank everyone involved from the catering team to the d cor. One of Java s birthday wishes is to build a church at Crowhill starting next year as already he has received a 2 000 square-metre stand as an early birthday present from Nyatanga, he said.Will history repeat itself this time as guests went away richer after some of lavish birthday parties or he has another surprise?