Sports ReporterTHE Sports Commission have set November 8 as the deadline for the submission of nominations for this year s Annual National Sports Associations awards. Sports Commission Corporate Communications Officer Tirivashe Nheweyembwa yesterday said nominations to search for sporting luminaries who lit the stage in various disciplines started last year in November.Outstanding athletes will be honoured at the awards ceremony on December 14 in Harare. Nheweyembwa said they have maintained the 17 categories from last year.The judges panel will begin work once it receives nomination papers from the association, with the unveiling ceremony set for November 21. Currently the SRC is receiving the Nomination forms. However, we wish to implore the National Sport Associations to submit the nominations since they know exactly who competed in what competition and the level of the competitions they entered their athletes, said Nheweyembwa.The theme of this year s awards has been changed from A Heart for Success , to Inspiring Excellence. Body-builder Helen Sinclair Costa is the reigning Sportsperson of the Year.Beverage manufacturer Delta Corporation will return this year as the flagship sponsor but the door has also been opened to the corporate world to chip in with bankrolling the awards. We are also in the process of looking for some more corporate partners to augment what Delta will be contributing to the awards. They are the title sponsors but we are in agreement to bring in more sponsors for the awards to be successful, as long as they are not in direct competition with Delta, said Nheweyembwa.In a year when individual success on the international scene was scarce, boxer Charles Manyuchi will undoubtedly be among the big names this year after he successfully defended his WBC Silver Welterweight title against Russian Dmitry Mikhaylenko.Manyuchi was the winner in 2014 and will be looking for his second ANSA Sportsperson of the year award.He missed the top gong to Sinclair Costa last year but was voted the best male athlete to land the Sportsman of the Year award.Giant karateka Admire Chingozhoro has also been making waves on the international scene while the Under-20 Netball team, the Mighty Warriors and the Warriors also made milestones by qualifying for continental and international tournaments. Nheweyembwa said the judges will prioritise medals and the level of competition entered.The categories that the athletes and officials will be vying for are as follows:1. Junior Sportswoman of the Year2. Junior Sportsman of the Year3. Junior Sportswoman of the Year with a Disability4. Junior Sportsman of the Year with a Disability5. Sportsman of the Year6. Sportswoman of the year7. Coach of the Year8. Technical Official of the year9. Sports Administration Award10. Development Award11. Sportsman of the year with a Disability12. Sportswoman of the Year with a Disability13. Junior Sportsperson of the Year14. Sportsperson of the year15. Team of the year16. Women and Sport of the year Award17. Special Acknowledgement Award