Sports ReporterAS the last four standing teams in the Chibuku Super Cup go into the hat this afternoon to determine the semi-final pairings, newboys Ngezi Platinum have said they didn t expect to get this far and will be ready for any opposition. Tonderai Ndiraya s men booked a semi-final spot on Saturday when they made light work of Tsholotsho at Baobab with an emphatic 4-1 victory.The former Dynamos coach attributed the success to hard work. It s a result of hard work. I want to applaud the players, the management and the supporters. Everyone has played their part, said Ndiraya. The community is very excited with this development. No one thought we would come this far in this tournament, this being our debut year in the Premiership. But it appears everyone is now believing, even the players themselves are now believing we can do it, but I would want to say we are taking it step by step. I believe what we have done so far in this tournament is quite an achievement considering we are just a team coming from Division One. He said they still have tough hurdles to clear. At this stage it means we have to raise the bar again if we are to progress to the finals. We are facing experienced teams that have featured in many cup finals. To be honest it will not be easy. We have to re-organise ourselves, even our thinking has to change because games of this nature are largely won by mental strength. So we are going to work hard to prepare our guys mentally, said Ndiraya.The venues for the semi-finals, which are slated for the weekend of October 22 to 23, will be announced after consultations with SuperSport.Highlanders progressed at the expense of How Mine in a Bulawayo derby which had to be settled by a penalty shootout following a 1-1 draw.Harare City kept their hopes alive of defending the trophy when they beat ZPC Kariba via a penalty lottery following a 2-2 draw.The Sunshine Boys have featured in the last two finals and are still on course to defend their crown.Norman Mapeza s FC Platinum are also chasing glory on the League and Cup fronts and the all-important goal by veteran forward Makai Kawashu sealed it for the Zvishavane side.Meanwhile, the Premier League resumes this weekend.FixturesSaturday: Ngezi Platinum Stars v Tsholotsho (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Triangle (Nyamhunga), How Mine v Mutare City Rovers (Luveve), Harare City v FC Platinum (Rufaro), Chapungu v Highlanders ( Ascot).Sunday: Bulawayo City v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Hwange (Rufaro), Border Strikers v CAPS United (Dulivhadzimu).