Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis Blessed month of October to you! Today I have a specific word for married couples. In this year of a double portion there also must be double blessing in your marriage and family life. Read on and discover how the two of you can become one, yes it s possible and can be developed! Hallelujah! And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Luke 9:58-59Years ago in Highfield where we had churches most pigeons had nests there.These birds like to be where there is peace.You see, when there is peace at home there is joy and peace in the church.Take note also that money is like pigeons, it does not like where there is no peace. If there is no peace and unity in the home money and progress will eventually flee, just like pigeons.Here is an interesting scripture above, a guy came to Jesus and said Lord I will follow you wherever you go! Jesus said foxes have holes, but me I have nowhere to lay up my head.You see after wedding you have to dig deep to know the person you got married to. If you don t dig you will never know who you are staying with.Years back when a bachelor was wooing a girl he would borrow clothes from an uncle or brothers in order to win the girl. But now married, the girl would be surprised to realise the nice jacket was sekuru s (Uncle)?You also need to build nests. An eagle builds nests with broken branches.If an eagle can build a home for 20 chicks with broken branches and it works, how much more can two broken people build up their home? O hallelujah!You can make it in your marriage. What good is it to be seen as wonderful at work and everywhere else yet the home is inhabitable and a place of sorrow, pain, ridicule and tears?A friend of mine was telling me about houses that can be built in a week in Europe.You see there is no ready-made husband or ready-made wife. On dating there are lies and cover ups! When at home there is reality now.During dating, you can be offended and yet put on a smile on your face. But the danger of pretending is that pressure builds up inside. When finally you explode, your spouse will be surprised where it would have come from? What we need to know and realise is that we have different backgrounds, different backgrounds!When I went to Zambia, I began to meet many people from North Africa. You would think they are about to fight when they are talking. Naturally they would speak in high tones. But later you find them laughing! There is a different culture there. Here when people shout they are about to exchange blows! What it means is when we come in our house we have to blend our cultures and come up with our own culture in our home. O hallelujah!You see at times men communicate in symbols and action yet women use their mouth to talk.Men can offload to friends they trust. It s not like that with women; they need to tell you all they experienced and met during the day.You men have the patience to listen and also respond. You will be commenting hoo ah that s very good! That s what happened ah, ah Ok!If you don t give her time to talk don t be sad when you hear stories in the neighbourhood and they will tell you your wife told Mrs so and so such and such a story! She is your friend, you are her friend. Where you are is now your home.You don t change. If you change you lose; there is no guarantee because it can be like you are jumping from the pan into the fire!Developing oneness through good communication in your home! Don t ignore, ridicule or speak roughly to each other.Always remember in your heart with men (natural means) it is impossible, but with God all things are possible (Mark 10:27).