Innocent Choga FitnessA friend recently put me to task by asking why we advise people to exercise in order to prevent diseases. He asked why we recommend the sick to exercise when in the years gone by they were recommended to relax and sleep so they can recover. Do we imply that exercise prevents illnesses and heal the sick? The second part of the question is why we always use vague statements like exercise can prevent, exercise may help and so forth.A visit to a certain physiotherapist s workplace left me in awe and admiration of how much their work is appreciated by their clients.Countless thank you cards on which touching emotional sentiments of appreciation were written decorated her office, a true reflection of job satisfaction.This to me also confirmed the group of individuals that appreciate the role of exercising the most; those who are ill and those living with conditions.Times have changed, research is constantly being done to find effective ways to improve our health and fitness regardless of whether we live with or without conditions and illnesses. There are different levels of illnesses. If the doctor thinks you are at a level where you are able to exercise, then it is to your advantage to do so.In some instances, exercise prevents illnesses and in some cases it does not. In the cases that it does, it can do so indirectly; for example, medical experts say diabetes can be weight related therefore exercise will assist by helping us to lose weight. So it is the reduction of weight through exercise that helps us.In other cases, exercise prevents illnesses directly; for example, there is no doubt about its effect on the cardio respiratory system which is good for the heart. The rush of blood through the blood vessels and the widening of blood vessels lead to uninterrupted flow of blood through the body. This results in lower heart rate at rest and reduces or eliminates the chances of being plagued by coronary diseases.Experts are not sure that exercise can prevent or cure arthritis but they are certain that weight bearing exercises improve bone density, add muscles around joints, strengthens and conditions the ligaments and tendons.The fact that arthritis involves the fragility of bones therefore implies that this type of exercise is helpful in this case. This form of exercise is also said to alleviate the pain and damage on joints caused by arthritis.In the cases that exercise may not prevent or help cure a disease it will condition us to better handle and live comfortably with the disease. According to experts, research has indicated that exercise can assist in handling the side effects of chemotherapy in cancer patients.One thing for sure is that exercise will not directly prevent one from contracting HIV and AIDS if they are exposed to it. Depending on the individual, participating and adhering to exercise and sporting activities can help indirectly by keeping people, both young and old busy and focused on these activities such that mischief is minimized. But it is not only through mischief that we contract the condition.This also leads to the second question of the may and can disclaimer phrases. In my opinion one of the reasons physical educationists and trainers will not say a definite statement is that they will not put their heads on the block because fitness does not rely on exercise alone.It is an equation that relies heavily on other factors like the current physical state of the individuals, lifestyles and inherited conditions. These are factors the trainer cannot control and such information is not disclosed at times.For example, for individuals living with HIV and AIDS who wish to put on weight, weight gain depends on the level of the male hormone (testosterone) in the body. The type and amount of food one consumes counts a lot. As human beings we have weaknesses, we smoke, we drink, we overeat, we indulge in the wrong foods and other vices.Don t get me wrong, exercising is for everybody and anyone despite the fact that we engage in all these things, though they are not recommended. Exercise might help mitigate their effects. Exercise might even lead to reduction in indulging in these things. Sometimes we inherit conditions that we cannot shake off. But for a trainer to make effective decisions there is need for the client to disclose.Different ways of exercising and different sporting disciplines are recommended for each illness, although you will find one or two daredevils who will defy the odds in every situation. For example, weight training is mostly recommended for those living with HIV and AIDS because of its ability to add muscle and maintain or improve bone density.Those with asthma are recommended to avoid high impact activities, but they are also recommended to start up with light aerobic activities to increase lung capacity. Stretching exercises are initially recommended for those who have suffered strokes, etc. Because of modern medication some individuals are also able to overcome the limitations.Exercise creates a combative environment that keeps illnesses in check. Sporting, disciplines and good exercise programmes require discipline. You cannot expect to do well in sport when you party every day, when you sleep a few hours and when you eat bad food or when you do not eat enough food everyday.The same applies to anyone who expects good results from an exercise program. Because the body is the asset, the instrument you use to perform you have to value the body and take care of it.When we visit sick relatives and friends the first thing we want to know is whether they are eating. We all know that good food provides necessary nutrients that help one to heal and it also provides energy. But what is the point if it is not fully digested and absorbed.Those who are finding it hard to eat will create hunger through exercise and because of the improved blood circulation through exercise, the system s efficiency in absorbing and utilizing consumed food is increased. This increased flow of blood will also help remove toxins and wastes from those with wounds.If someone is ill but exercising there will be need to replenish the depleted body cells. If they are not eating well, they will go into a catabolic state, they will use muscle for energy thereby losing more weight and putting the body in a negative situation. This will leave one susceptible to diseases and opportunistic infections if one is living with HIV. In such a scenario exercise will not be helping but worsening the situation.Generally, with all things being equal exercise will help the sick by reducing stress, anxiety, and helping them to relax and sleep well. Exercise will improve the feeling of being well. Iron sharpens iron; energy expenditure through exercise creates more energy.Despite these facts exercise will never be an alternative to doctors and recommended medicine. If done in a safe manner, exercise is an add-on that can enhance the quality of one s life and create that feeling of being in control over one s body.Never get to the point of saying I exercise and I am now fit, so I am quitting medication . Only the doctor should advise you on what you should do. The doctor should also assist in the selection of a fitness regimen you should undertake.Safety is key for those who are living with illnesses, so it is wise to start exercising with the services of a trainer. It is imperative that you use the perfect form because you may get injured.It is also important that you do not train excessively. Overtraining puts the body in a negative state. Avoid dehydration during exercise as it depletes the electrolytes. Because of the lowered immune system, it may take longer to recover from injuries. Dehydration and electrolyte imbalances can result in fatal consequences.It is a good thing to get tested measured before embarking on an exercise program. It is also good practice to evaluate the effects of the programme by analysing the results every now and then.What can be tested? Various body parts strength, fitness levels, etc. This should be done before you start on a program and regularly thereafter. This helps to find out weaknesses and strength so that a plan can be put in place knowing what to prioritise, what you can and cannot do. There is need to measure fat and hormone levels etc. depending on the situation. Evaluation enables the trainer to find out if you are making progress or not and apply the necessary changes.Get relevant tests related to your condition, for example tests like CD4 counts for those living with HIV and AIDS and other tests the doctors might think are necessary so that notes can be compared on evaluation.When one is just starting on exercising it is advisable to start at an easy pace, take things easy and grow into it. Too much exercise can result in the eating of muscle as it is used for energy and further weight loss will occur especially when the food and rest components do not match the energy expended.Do not take any supplements without the advice of the doctor. Certain supplements have been recommended for certain illnesses and others have been condemned so you need the doctor s recommendation as much as you need the dietician s advice on what to eat.The bottom line is that the ability to prevent, condition, treat and cure illnesses through exercise depends on our lifestyles before falling ill and after.Please consult your doctor before embarking on any form of exercise and diet program.Email:innocentfchoga@gmail.com Innocent Choga is a six-time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport