Arts EditorRoasting meat, drinking and making merry at open spaces is a common activity in many parts of the country. During weekends and other days to relax, many people opt to go for braai with spouses, family and friends. In Harare, many outdoor places like Mereki, Zindoga, KwaFatso, Junction 24, Pahuku, Megga 2, Family 24 and Paramount are popular for braai. Other people prefer to invite friends at their houses for braai parties and it has become a subtle law for associates to roast meat, drink and play music whenever they meet for partying. While different individuals favour certain public spots depending on location, class and tastes, something big is brewing for everyone who loves braai.It is the Ultimate Braai , which is coming to Alexandra Sports Club on October 29 courtesy of Castle Lager. Organisers of the event say the big party aims to set a record of roasting 10 000kg of meat on braai stands as long as 200 metres. They said it will bring together the Gigmaster (music), the Braaimaster (meat) and the Brewmaster (beer). It is a day filled with fun and activity where records will be broken. We want to consume 10,000kgs of meat on the day, have the longest braai stands of up to 200m and the biggest crowd to attend a single braai event. To add to the excitement a braaiometer will be on site showing the consumption levels of meat as the day progresses, noted the organisers. The idea was born from the strong association between braai activities in the country, beer consumption and listening to music. Castle Lager as the flagship clear beer brand for Delta Beverages is giving all braai lovers a platform to come together to braai meat, enjoy their favourite lager whilst listening to good music on the day. Not only is this event being held to drive the brand proposition through experiential marketing, we are also holding this event as a drive towards corporate social responsibility. For every kilogramme of meat consumed, Castle Lager will donate an equivalent amount that will be shared equally by Mpilo General Hospital in Bulawayo and Harare Hospital. We are encouraging everyone to participate in this worthy cause remembering that for every glass of Castle Lager raised, the cheer goes way beyond the beer to help our brothers and sisters who are hospitalised. The event is set to kick off at 12p.m and will finish late. Entertainment has been lined up with artistes that include Ammara Brown, Killer T and Oliver Mtukudzi and various DJ s who will entertain the crowd throughout the day. For one to get access to the venue they have to pay an entrance fee of $5 that will guarantee them a braai pack and a one litre of Castle Lager.