Mercedes Benz GLCTinashe Makichi: MotoringComfortable on long journeys, sporty on rural roads and efficient in everyday use the new Mercedes Benz GLC comes with unquestionable superiority among its peers. I had an opportunity to take a closer feel of the vehicle recently at Zimoco where GLC 250 was on show. The vehicle exhibited an elegant look that has capacity to charm the market without doubt. Ever higher, further ahead, Mercedes Benz lovers are set to encounter every drive on a whole new level with the new GLC. More progressive and more athletic than ever before yet virtually silent and highly efficient, so much is possible with the most advanced SUV in its class.Get on board; an interior that is exquisite beyond measure awaits you. The new GLC makes the best of every ground. Available on request, the continuously adjustable damping system with roll reduced air suspension pampers the occupants using every trick of engineering artistry in the book.A specially tuned sport mode can be selected for a dynamic driving experience. What s more, any unevenness in the road surface is significantly absorbed. Automatic height regulation ensures more stability and less consumption, depending on the current speed. On stony ground or when the car is heavily laden, the vehicle height can also be manually adapted via the level control switch. Start relaxed arrive more relaxed: best achieved with the new GLC.The new GLC makes the best of every drive system, power, quiet and efficiency. The drive unit consists of a turbocharged 4-cylinder combustion engine with 155 kW and a maximum torque of 350 Nm plus a hybrid module with 85 kW and a maximum torque of 340 Nm.Purely electric driving is possible with a speed of up to 140 km/h over a distance of up to 34 When driving faster or on steep inclines, the new GLC changes over to combustion operation fully automatically.The vehicle boasts of a Plug-in hybrid technology which facilitates charging at a conventional socket with 3.0 kW from zero to 100 percent in a good four hours. As soon as you take your foot off the accelerator pedal whilst driving, the battery even charges automatically thanks to an intelligent operating strategy and the car can thus achieve a local carbon dioxide emission value of zero g/km.The new GLC is fitted as standard with the dynamic select system, halogen headlamps, including integral LED daytime running lamps and position lamps, plus 10-spoke light alloy wheels. With piano-lacquer-look trim and a leather steering wheel, the interior invites you to get off to a great start and tarry awhile. The Audio 20 USB multimedia system is also on board as standard, as is the fuel-saving ECO start/stop function, the anticipatory collision prevention assist plus and the watchful attention assist.The vehicle is currently on show at Zimoco, the country s largest Mercedes Benz dealer.