Bianca Leboho Herald Reporter The agriculture sector is set to benefit from a $56 million facility meant to resuscitate the country s soya bean and oil production industry. The facility that will capacitate soya bean farmers through the provision of irrigation equipment, technological and advanced information systems, human resources and links with other partners, will be spearheaded by the Oil Seed Association of Zimbabwe (OSAZ).OSAZ chairperson Mr Marshall Masvikepi, said the association was created to capacitate the soya bean industry to help avert oil deficit in the country. The country has been heavily relying on imports. We have registered 22 000 soya bean farmers in the country whom we will work with to revive the production of soya beans in the country. Mr Masvikepi said farmers who registered with the association would be assisted to get first class seeds, machinery and irrigation equipment among other agricultural tools required for the mass production of soya beans. We have already partnered with stakeholders who include soya bean farmers, Seed Co, financial institutions from the private and public sector and GEOSYS, an international information systems company among others. Mr Masvikepi said last season the country managed to produce 20 000 tonnes of oil, leaving the local market with a deficit of 200 000 tonnes of oil required annually. Our oil industry has the capacity to produce close to 450 000 tonnes of oil, which if reached will not only meet the local demand, but will also revive the export market, he said.He added that the $56 million project would generate a total of $125 million, which would be injected into the project. Zimstat have revealed that up to 92 percent of oil in the country was imported. It is important for Zimbabweans to take advantage of the Statutory Instrument 64, which outlaws the importation of some goods that can be locally produced. We intend to take advantage of the import restrictions and add value to the Zim-Asset economic blueprint by ensuring that from the 2016-17 season going onwards, the country relies on its local producers for its oil, said Mr Masvikepi.He added that the project was complementary to the command agriculture project, which was currently being launched by Government. Farmers eligible to register with the association are required to have a minimum of one hectare of land and records of reasonable productivity.