THE HULK . . . Paul Goredema proudly displays the Mr Zimbabwe trophy he won in Harare on Saturday night. Picture by John ManzongoEddie Chikamhia and Takudzwa Chitsiga PAUL Goredema surprised everyone, including himself, when he shrugged off strong competition from his rivals to win his first Mr Zimbabwe bodybuilding title at the Harare International School on Saturday night. The Gweru hulk, who also bagged the senior men heavyweight category, was over the moon with the confirmation he was the last man standing on the stage.For a man who had never won a major event, to finish ahead of the likes of Tarirai Chirume, Blessing Nyapimbi and Munashe Matandirotya in the over 85kg category, it was a dream come true. But then, Goredema went on to prove his mettle in the tough overall round when pitted against the well-built light heavyweight champion Nigel Maphosa and middleweight category winner Garikayi Mujuru. I am so happy, (but I am) just a little tired, he said soon after receiving his prize of $1 000 and a hamper from the sponsors. I took about three months of training for this competition. I m honoured to be the winner today. There were a lot of guys who came prepared for this event but I was shocked to see myself victorious. Nonetheless, I respect them. Actually one of them is my best friend. He was with me all the way till today. But I didn t expect to be the last man standing. All the same I m happy, said Goredema. This was his second contest this year after winning the Boksbug Classics in South Africa in August.But on a night when athletes from Midlands, Bulawayo and Harare dominated the podium, Midlands Maphosa was crowned the senior men body-building light heavyweight champion beating close competition from Ndumiso Dlodlo of Bulawayo. Garikayi Mujuru carried the flag for Harare when he won middleweight category. The winner of last year s lightweight category, Mujuru was in such great physical condition he had to take gold again this year.He was succeeded in the lightweight category on Saturday by Muchineripi Muneri from Midlands. George Munyoro won the Masters men body-building over 40 years section while Precious Mujuru won the Women body fitness category. But the night belonged to Goredema, who indicated he will take a short break before embarking on preparations for next year s prestigious Arnold Classic.Goredema believes hard work pays. He said his legs and back made the difference on Saturday night and will continue to work on strength and endurance. He also hailed the Midlands province for producing quality athletes. It s worth everything that I invested and with every effort from the first day I started training, I think it s worth it. I have been dieting for the last three months so I would probably need to eat proper food from now on. The South African event was more like a warm up show. I had taken a two year break from body-building because I was finishing off my studies. So in January that s when I started preparing for the new season. In May I took some time off and started doing my dieting. My first competition was in August in South Africa. All I can say is most great champions come from the Midlands. I don t want to brag but that s the truth, said Goredema.The National Federation of Zimbabwe Body-building and Fitness spokesperson Quiet Shangai said the event was one of the most competitive since 2010 as it had so many surprises. The only athletes who managed to retain gold were Men s physique overall winner Godwin Simbarashe Mhaka, Mujuru and Men s wheelchair body-building champion Marko Mwale.Shantel Batch recorded her first triumph at the nationals while Maphosa was celebrating his first ever gold at the Zimbabwe premier body-building contest. This was one of the best event we ever seen since 2010 as most of the winners were underdogs. Goredema had never won any major event but he pulled a shocker by beating the likes of Munashe Matandirotya. He was just a complete athlete dry and had glutes shredded. We can compare this year s event to the 2010 one where there was Givemore Marume, Walter Munyikwa, Victor Hungwe and Tarirai Chirume among others, Shangai said. It was hard to believe but easy to appreciate as Paul Goredema exhibited a dry and balanced physique on a night which saw the entrance of a new generation in the upper echelons of local body-building. Nigel Spartan Maphosa also shocked everyone, me included with his Shawn Ray- like physique. Munashe Matandirotya . . . came with excellent proportions and symmetry but the level of dryness that Paul Goredema exhibited eclipsed the Man from the moon as well as Simbarashe Dube, Blessing Nyapimbi and Tarirai Chirume who all deserve to go to Arnolds 2017 if well-developed physiques are supposed to. Selected results: Senior men body-building overall Paul Goredema ( Midlands)Senior men body-building heavyweights Paul Goredema ( Midlands)Senior men body-building light-heavyweight Nigel Maphosa ( Midlands)Senior men bodybuilding middleweights Garikayi Mujuru ( Harare)Senior men bodybuilding lightweights Muchineripi Muneri ( Midlands)Masters men bodybuilding over 40 years George Munyoro ( Harare)Junior men bodybuilding under 23 years Lee Dzinzi ( Manicaland)Men s physique overall Godwin Simbarashe Mhaka ( Harare)Men s physique up to and including 178cm Godwin Simbarashe Mhaka ( Harare)Men s physique over 178cm Brian Saundombe ( Bulawayo)Women Beach bikini Shantel Batch ( Bulawayo)Men s wheelchair bodybuilding Marko Mwale ( Bulawayo)Women body fitness Precious Mujuru ( Harare)Children s fitness girls Selina Manuels ( Bulawayo)Junior men bodybuilding teens Sibuziso ( Bulawayo)Women bikini masters Kirsty Baxter ( Harare)