LONDON. We re nearly a quarter of the way through the Premier League season and, therefore, have seen just about enough to get a gauge as to how clubs are performing and whether supporters should be happy or not. Here Telegraph Sport ranks each club on a happiness rating with reasons to worry and reasons to feel positive.20 Sunderland (-10)Oh, Sunderland. Even on the trajectory of seasons gone by this is a pretty sad beginning with no wins in nine games and only six goals scored. The Black Cats are second bottom of the form table, bottom of the actual table, looking for a first win, projected to finish with around 10 points in May.19 Manchester Utd (-7.5)Special One Jose Mourinho was hired to bring the good times back to Old Trafford and while he may yet still do that in the months and years to come, there are a number of worrying signs appearing only nine games into the new league season. A heavy defeat at Chelsea, seventh in the table, worrying form from Rooney, Pogba and Ibrahimovic among others. Eric Bailly s injury. Mourinho s deflection techniques. Mourinho s CV is littered with trophies, while the likes of Paul Pogba will come good. Man Utd are still only six points off top, too.18 Swansea (-7)Twelfth in the league last season was impressive but the start to this campaign less so. Bob Bradley s in, but it ll take a few weeks of improved performances. .17 West Ham (-7)Moving from Upton Park, a necessity for the long term, was always going to be tricky and results on the pitch are almost certainly taking a hit because of it. A struggle for goals, a struggle for results. Two wins on the bounce, including one at the London Stadium (hooray!), make things a little brighter.16 Stoke (-7)After a mid-table finish last campaign, this season hasn t started quite as well and there have been a few questions around Mark Hughes future. Nine points from nine games is borderline relegation form. Unbeaten in four and there is Joe Allen. Joseph Michael Allen.15 Hull (-3)It started oh so well for Hull and Mike Phelan. But the Tigers are shipping goals left, right and centre, but few would have thought this season would be anything other than difficult.14 Middlesbrough (0)It had all started to well, with four points from the first two games (the win against Sunderland) and since then it s largely been a little worrying. That performance at Arsenal last Saturday was very impressive.13 Crystal Palace (+1)Considering a difficult second half of last season and a somewhat disappointing transfer window, there have been a few things to cheer at Selhurst Park. Encouraging start to the season, Christian Benteke fitting in well.12 West Brom (+1.5)Another season of Tony Pulis trademarked style of football looks set to bring about another mid-lower table finish. Nacer Chadli has been absolutely superb.11 Burnley (+2)The Clarets look like they have a genuine chance of staying in the Premier League this season. Not in the relegation zone, home form spiffing and Sean Dyche a superb boss.10 Watford (+3.5)Walter Mazzarri s appointment may not have been greeted with huge cheer at the time, but that initial worry is fading fast. Top half of the table and only two points off Man Utd.9 Bournemouth (+4.5)Eddie Howe is continuing to take the Cherries into new territory with some seriously impressive displays. Dean Court becoming a difficult place to go, playing excellent football and getting results. Jack Wilshere playing 90 minutes.8 Leicester (+4.5)Leicester fans are still happy. They ve taken to Europe like a duck. Need a few more Premier League wins so people stop talking about everything going into Europe.7 Chelsea (+5)A thumping win against Manchester United last weekend, three wins on the bounce and three clean sheets. Goals, clean sheets, younger players coming through. Whisper it quietly, too, but only a point off top spot.6 Southampton (+5.5)Another manager change and, seemingly, another very good choice from top-notch recruiters Southampton. Nathan Redmond, eighth place in the league and a European adventure. Recruitment tip-top, an academy producing talented youngsters.5 Everton (+5.5)Ronald Koeman is reviving Everton after a pretty demoralising time under Roberto Martinez and there s plenty for Toffees fans to be delighted about. Defence much stronger and Romelu Lukaku looking in good nick.4 Man City (+5.5)Pep Guardiola s near perfect start has tailed off a little, but just that he s at the club should keep fans insulated from sadness. Got arguably the best coach in the world in charge, favourites for the Premier League.3 Arsenal (+7)Of course, it would be a top-four finish. Things are going very well and there s a win every week expectation surrounding the Gunners again. Ozil/Sanchez contracts, November s upcoming arrival, Xhaka s red card habit, looking irresistible at times up front, Walcott and Oxlade-Chamberlain revived.2 Tottenham (+8)Nine games unbeaten in the league and going steadily in Europe, Mauricio Pochettino has got his side motoring again. Unbeaten and win over Man City shows they can beat anyone on their day.1 Liverpool (+10)Joint-top, through to the EFL Cup quarter-finals and with no European distractions to worry about. Klopp has the players and fans backing, the results are very good and there s no European distraction. Daily Telegraph.