Ola JordanLONDON. Ola Jordan has claimed that some of the new dancers on Strictly Come Dancing have caused rivalries with the longer-standing pros. The 34-year-old professional dancer who quit the show at the end of the last series insists there were more important things going on in her life than to engage in petty feuds.She said: The new dancers come in wanting to prove themselves and no one can blame them for that, but I got to the point where I just couldn t bring myself to be involved in any rivalry, other things were more important. Ola claims BBC bosses ordered some of the dancers to change their hair colour, but she warned them she wouldn t be changing her appearance for the sake of the show.She said: When I heard that was happening, I told them there was no way I was dyeing my hair. Luckily I had been in the show for long. I m quite a nervous person so I wasn t sure about dancing and speaking on TV. Once we got started I really enjoyed it though. I had no idea how popular the show was going to turn out to be. So they wouldn t try to change how I look. It only happened with the new dancers, she added.Ola who is married to fellow dancer James Jordan initially had reservations about being on the show.And the blonde beauty thinks the show has changed a lot since it began.She told OK! Magazine: It s changed massively. Most of the celebrities can dance before they even start training, which wasn t the case when I started out. Meanwhile, the professional dancers on Strictly have been dressed much more modestly this year, in what appears to be a bid to return the show to being family-friendly.The costume designers seem to have made a conscious effort to make the outfits less revealing, with cutaway sections which were once the norm no longer evident.Instead strips of material or tassels around the stomach area have been inserted to expose less flesh.The move suggests that the BBC is trying to tone down the show, which airs before the watershed, to make it appropriate for children, after viewers complained about the sexy outfits in previous years.Fans have previously criticised the risqu outfits worn by the professional dancers complaining they look like adult film stars.In 2014, Kristina Rihanoff, who was nicknamed the Siberian Siren , came under fire for the barely-there outfit she wore to perform an intimate rumba with singer Simon Webbe.Viewers said that Miss Rihanoff s revealing tasselled leotard and series of lewd poses were inappropriate for a pre-watershed audience.And sources claim that the corporation has gone a step further by banning the professional dancers from releasing sexy calendars, following concerns over the tacky off-screen projects.The demure outfits on show this series contrasts sharply to last year, when the dancers lined up at the launch show wearing matching bra-lets and cutaway skirts.And the dresses were so revealing that Ola Jordan, who was known for her sexy outfits, suffered an embarrassing wardrobe malfunction when she was partnered with Iwan Thomas.The changes in the wardrobe department have not gone unnoticed with fans of the show, with many welcoming the introduction of more pretty dresses. &#8211; mailonline.