Business ReporterLEADING internet service provider, ZOL will today officially unveil its low cost app-based mobile calling facility named ZiNumber, which functions on android and iOS smart phones. The facility will enable business users to slash their communication bills by over 50 percent split into 25 percent savings on local calls and about 40 percent on international calls. Calls between ZOL subscribers will be free, but charged at a low rate of 10 cents per minute to local networks billed per second.ZOL said one only needs to have internet connection to be able to use the myZOLphone app and all mobile phones adapted for WhatsApp calls can receive calls from ZiNumber; 08677.The mobile application is available on App Store or Play Store. Users can start enjoying calls immediately after down loading. The ISP provider said for individuals, making or receiving calls on ZiNumber, anywhere provided there is internet connection, is all about the strength of the mobile phone s reception.But the facility works perfectly for both individuals and businesses. Businesses on 08677 can call their employees for free. There no longer is need for roaming for international travellers. When travelling internationally you do not need to have access to high speed internet connection, you can continue to receive calls on ZiNumber. This means you can stay in touch with your business partners and family wherever you are. Businesses will enjoy free calls on ZOL to ZOL calls, free inter-branch calls, simultaneous calls on single number for rental fee of only $5/month per number, free conferencing service on 08677 prefixed number; reducing company travelling costs.ZOL said businesses can instantly setup meetings, as anyone can use while it is reachable from all networks in the country. Whether one has a legacy PBX or modern IP PBX, ZOL has compatible ZOLphone solutions for any business regardless of size.They enjoy features such as caller ID, call forwarding, call recording, call diverts, voicemail to email, auto attendants and queues. All Fibroniks packages come with free 08677 line, provisioned on TelOne port of the modem, the internet service provider said.