Charles Mabika Special CorrespondentLEGENDARY radio soccer commentator, Jonathan Mutsinze, who passed away on Tuesday after a long illness, used to deliver a steady narrative coupled with a masterly command of the Shona language and an insightful knowledge of the game. These were some of the attributes that addicted even non-soccer followers to seldom miss his Sunday live coverage on ZBC s then Radio Two station.Mutsinze, together with his colleague, the late Collet Bahlangene, were some of the pioneers and astute artists of live soccer commentary from the early 60s right up to the late 80s when he hung up his microphone.I distinctly remember when we were at primary school in the 70s, with my lifelong colleague, legendary footballer Stanford Stix Mtizwa, my elder brother Joze and other friends like ex-Chapungu defender Amon Cat Chikwenga and Sam Nhayi Tembo and we would huddle around Nhayi s elder brother, Mukoma Robert Tembo s (now a ZIFA councillor) portable radio and follow live proceedings from Rufaro, Gwanzura, Callies and even as far as Barbourfields, Ascot or the Colliery grounds where Mutsinze would unravel the events on the pitch.He had a unique lustre to narrate the real rivalries in those days between clubs like Highlanders, Dynamos, Rufaro Rovers, Mashonaland United (later Zimbabwe Saints), Sables, Callies, Mangula and Arcadia United.Even as I proceeded for my high school education at Goromonzi, I would always be the first one to ask for the hostel s portable radio from one of the prefects as early as 11am after church service on a Sunday to make sure I would be the Boss who would decide which station to tune in.And, of course, for the whole day, guess what station would be . . . you guessed right Radio Two in anticipation of the meticulous voice of Mutsinze.Although he was always professionally impartial during his commentaries, he would, unashamedly, reveal, every time that Dynamos featured on his duty roster, that his favourite player was the club s Mastermind , George Shaya. Oh boy, how Mutsinze just loved Shaya.Here is how a part of one of his commentaries on a Dynamos match would sound like: Steven Faka Simbi, captain weDynamos, achiripa Mastermind . . . uyu ndiGeorge Shaya, achinzvenga defender mumwe chete apo . . . George, ummm vadiwa, muchinda uyu hameno kwaakazvarirwa kani, George, George ndiye anaro, vamwe vanomuti Matanyera nokuti anotsvaira kusvika floor yese yachenakuti mbuu . . . (Dynamos captain, Steven Faka Simbi, passes to the Mastermind . . . this is George Shaya, dribbling past one opponent . . . George, umm ladies and gentlemen, this player is out of this world, George, George is still in possession, some prefer to call him Matanyera, because he sweeps the floor cleanest . . . ). And then Shaya would be dispossessed. Would Mutsinze tell you that?No ways.He would immediately change the subject and say: Eeh vadiwa, manga muchiziva here kuti mukombe uri kutambirwa uyu une mari inosvika mazana mashanu emadhora . . . George ndiye aanaro zvakare, achinzvenga vaviri apo, achisimudza cross yakanaka-naka apo . . . Ernest Kamba achiri tunga nemusoro apo! Go! Go! Go! Haina Ngozi yatungamira apo! ( Eeh, ladies and gentlemen, did you know that this cup tournament is worth $500? George back in possession, sweeping past two men and he sends a cross over to Ernest Kamba who heads it into the net! Goal! Goal Goal! Haina Ngozi have taken he lead! )To date, Mutsinze and later on, the late duo of Brighton Matewere and Crispen Choga Gavhure were the main inspiration to me becoming a soccer commentator.Although my late colleague, Lieutenant Evans Mambara always talked about the late and legendary Zambian Dennis Liwewe as his main inspiration, he also was one of Mutsinze s ardent admirers.Though Evans and I would later venture into English commentary, Mutsinze s indelible touch left its mark on our vocal chords.Despite his celebrity status, Mutsinze was a humble man.He was always ready to impart his expertise to anyone who needed advice and am quite certain that a lot of past and present commentators took a leaf from his voluminous catalogue.Mutsinze once revealed that his most memorable commentary which also happened to be his first international coverage match was the tie between visiting Scottish giants, Celtic and hosts, then Southern Rhodesia at Glamis (now Harare Showgrounds) back in 1963.With the hosts trailing 3-0 and only 10 minutes left, with almost all the local fans having left the stadium in disappointment, the hosts staged a dramatic fightback with a hat-trick from burly winger, Jimmy Daddy Finch (late) to level the scoreline by the end of the match.Mutsinze recalled that after Finch s third goal, he didn t realise that he had jumped off his seat and wrenched off his headgear and microphone onto the turf for a full 30 seconds, as he celebrated wildly with the few fans who were still at the stadium and had to be reminded to put back his working equipment by the radio technicians on duty that day!The commentary guru might be gone in flesh, but for many of us still in this business will continue to be inspired by his scorching repertoire.Till we meet again, rest in peace Mudhara Jona.