THE RISING STAR . . . Basler Mushangazhike (left) is a rising Zimbabwe football star and his father, Gilbert, believes he will make a huge impression soonEddie Chikamhi Sports Reporter HE learnt it from his father and now he is passing the skills of the trade to his own children.Gilbert Mushangazhike, the son of former BAT Ramblers star Arthur Mushangazhike, made his name in South Africa and had international stints in Germany and China. His late brother Alwyn was also a footballer and so were cousins Blessing, a former Young Warriors midfielder and ex-Kaizer Chiefs hotshot Kelvin.And now, the Mushangazhike conveyor belt is hoping to spit out a new breed of footballers to carry the family name forward.Gilbert s two sons Basler and Sizzla are making a mark in South Africa where they are based.Basler (19) has won numerous awards in junior football while his 11-year old sibling Sizzla has just landed a scholarship to join top England side Liverpool developmental team.Mushangazhike believes the talent runs in the family line and is excited that his sons have shown so much promise. We come from a family of footballers. We were lucky my father played football and would always take us to football matches when he was playing. It was a priceless exposure from a very young age, said Mushangazhike. I learnt a lot from my father and I worked hard to achieve what I achieved. He taught me what it was to be a footballer and I think I m doing the same to my sons. I hope they will not lose it. In football, you can have the talent, but if you don t train hard you will not go anywhere. The former Warriors forward said Basler has developed technically and tactically over the years and could soon be ready for the big stage.Basler has played since his early primary school days and has not shown signs of slowing down even now as he is about to graduate from high school.He has been groomed at an academy called Juventus, a European project in Durban linked with the Serie A giants.He has trained with the Amazulu Under-19 and Golden Arrows juniors as well and now is at Virginia Academy. Basler has this amazing power and aggression. I think he will make a very good striker if he maintains focus. Then there is the younger one, who is only 11- years-old. He was recently spotted by Liverpool scouts and was offered a scholarship to join their developmental side next year. So he will be going to England in February next year. He plays as a right winger. He looks promising, has a slender body similar to (his uncle) Kelvin and has a similar style of play. He has scored goals for his school and club, said Mushangazhike.With the privilege of expert guidance, Basler is confident he will carry on from where his father left. As you know football has always been in the family and the love for it was always great. Just watching my dad play and achieve so much made my love for football even greater, with him making sure that I have good training and an understanding of the game from a young age. This inspired me to go and play for clubs here in Durban like the Juventus Academy, Stella Football Club, the Shaun Bartlett Football Academy and also the regional North Durban team. I enjoy playing a free role, but the coaches have deployed me at the wings. My strength is good vision and shooting. I would want to get to a high level in football and keep the Mushangazhike name going, said the younger Mushangazhike.On holidays, Basler and his younger brother Sizzla have the privilege of one-on-one training with their father, who is now a holder of CAF coaching badges.