Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports ReporterWarriors coach Callisto Pasuwa has said Zimbabwe should prepare thoroughly if they hope to make an impression at next year s Africa Cup of Nations after the senior team was placed in probably the strongest group for next year s African Cup of Nations last night. The Warriors were placed in Group B in a draw conducted in Gabon last night and will face continental heavyweights Algeria, Senegal and Tunisia.Pasuwa said he had hoped to face any team at the finals considering that the Warriors were not seeded.The Warriors gaffer said their showdown with Algeria will be a David versus Goliath affair as the Desert Foxes are the top ranked team in the group.Algeria had been the number one team in Africa until last month when they were dislodged into second place by Cote d Ivoire.Interestingly, the other members of the group Senegal and Tunisia are currently the third and fourth best teams in Africa, which make Group B the Group of Death. First of all we have to appreciate that all the 16 teams did not qualify by chance. They finished on top of their groups and it means we could only anticipate quality opposition. So we expected that, we knew it wasn t going to be an easy draw. Worse, considering our ranking and that we were in Pot Four, we had no choice, but to accept anything that came our way, said Pasuwa.The Warriors who were represented at the draw by team manager Sharif Mussa were the lowest ranked team among the 16 countries that went into the hat last night as they are 35th in Africa.Hosts Gabon headlined the draw yesterday in Group A which also has Burkina Faso, former champions Cameroon and the only debutants at the tournament Guinea Bissau.Group A will play their matches in the capital Libreville while the Warriors will be based in Franceville.Defending champions Cote d Ivoire will face Morocco, Togo and 2015 bronze medallists Democratic Republic of Congo while Ghana, Mali, Egypt and Uganda make up Group D.Despite being placed in the tough group, Mussa sounded bullish after the draw. Mussa said the Warriors needed to prepare well ahead of the tournament, which runs from January 14 to February 5 next year.Zimbabwe will be based in Franceville, one of the four largest cities in Gabon. The Warriors will compete with in-form players such as the Desert Foxes pair of Riyad Mahrez who won the English championship last season with Leicester City and Islam Slimani.Mahrez and Slimani are favourites to lead Algeria s charge on the country s 18th appearance at the continental football showcaseThe Warriors will also have to contend with a star-studded Senegal side that has the likes of Cheikhou Kouyat of West Ham United in England and Liverpool s Sadio Mane.Senegal, runners up in 2002, have been on the rise again with a group comprising players dotted around some of Europe s biggest leagues.But the Warriors have maintained they will not be in Gabon to make up the numbers.Zimbabwe, who will be making only their third appearance after qualifying in style under Pasuwa, are looking to leave their mark at the tournament despite the prospects of facing challenging opposition.They have shown a lot of promise with a fine crop of players that include Khama Billiat, Knowledge Musona, Costa Nhamoinesu, Marvelous Nakamba and captain Willard Katsande.Pasuwa said their biggest challenge at the moment was to ensure they prepared adequately for the showcase and revealed his wish to play a warm up game against North African opposition before they travel to Gabon.The former Dynamos coach said they would not be intimidated by the profiles of their Group B opponents. Of course you cannot take away anything from our opponents. They have players who are enjoying top form and also they are quick and physical. But it s not like we are going there to make up numbers. We could be the little boys in that group, but we have to make an impression at that stage. In terms of preparation I think we should do our best. Unfortunately we have missed one of the dates for the FIFA international friendlies in October. But there is another one coming up in November. If we can possibly utilise that and play a friendly match with a team from North Africa, I think it will add more value to our preparations. We have sent our programme to our superiors and we are still waiting for a response. Again, we are hoping to get all our players on time so that we utilise all the time we can get for camp. The international calendar will be on and hopefully the clubs will release the players on time, said Pasuwa.