Jah PrayzahMusic lovers took to several media platforms to congratulate musician Jah Prayzah for winning the Listeners Choice Award at the MAMA awards held in South Africa on Saturday. Jah Prayzah whose real name is Mukudzei Mukombe became the first musician from Zimbabwe to win the award after shrugging off stiff competition in a category that had the following names:Adiouza (Senegal), Bebe Cool (Uganda), Burna Boy (Nigeria), Den G (Liberia), EL (Ghana),Jay Rox (Zambia), Kansoul (Kenya), Kiss Daniel (Nigeria), Lij Michael (Ethiopia), LXG (Sierra Leone), Meddy (Rwanda), Messias Marioca (Mozambique), Prince Kaybee (South Africa), Reda Taliani (Algeria), Saad Lamjarred (Morocco),Sabri Mosbah (Tunisia), Sidiki Diabate (Mali), Tamer Hosny (Egypt),The Dogg (Namibia), Yamoto Band (Tanzania).Jah Prayzah could not believe his ears when his manager broke the news to him at a private function at Meikles Hotel on Saturday. It is an honour to have that award and when my manager came breaking the news to me, I was so excited. Even our performance changed. Unfortunately, we could not afford to cancel four shows we had on the day to go and attend the awards ceremony, said Jah Prayzah.Fans, artistes congratulate Jah Prayzah Music lovers and other artistes have posted on different social media platforms including Facebook and Twitter, congratulating the Watora Mari hit -maker for winning the award. Nhasi ndezveduwo iti makorokoto korokoto kwatiri wedu adadisa. Well done my brother and Third Generation team as well as JP fans for voting. Tisu anhu acho proudly Zimbabwean, up, up, up. May the Lord God keep blessing you bro , said Nyar Lavie Dhewa on Facebook. I always knew that this name wasn t just given for no reason, you are the boss of Africa in (the) entertainment sector. Go further till we reach Grammy Awards, said Noreen Mutera on Facebook.Trevor Dongo could not hide his joy. Congrats to @jahprayzah for scooping the LISTENERS CHOICE AWARD! Thanks for paving a way for us all my brother! GOD bless, noted Trevor Dongo on Twitter. Who knew Zimbabwe s first #MAMA would go to a mbira-playing artiste! Makorokoto @JahPrayzah, wrote mbira princess Hope Masike on Twitter. Congratulations to Jah Prayzah for winning the Listeners Choice MAMA Award, watichenesera nzira, said dancehall king Winky D on Twitter Here is one Zimbabwean who s definitely putting us on the map! Congratulations Jah for winning this award! You are so deserving of it, you really put in the work! Super proud of you, well done #NgazviendeMberi Ramba uchingopenya kunge zuva, noted Summer Rose on Facebook.While many people congratulated him, others expressed their dissatisfaction on why he did not attend the MAMA awards to fully represent Zimbabwe. Congratulations Mdhara, but next time attend. You may inadvertently send a wrong message about you and Zim artistes by snubbing such a show. Presumably many expected to meet you and Africa might have got the opportunity to see you, wrote Tafadzwa Jonah Katsidzira on Facebook. Was shocked to see you had a show in Chinhoyi on MAMAs night. This is epic bro, your management should have known better. But then again, we don t know why you didn t go. CONGRATS, CONGRATS, CONGRATS, posted Hazel Sillah on Facebook. Did you not expect to win, anyway I don t know why you did not attend, but this is a signal that you are doing very, very well. Congratulations to you, noted Lily Mumbure on Facebook.Jah Prayzah said he will host a celebratory show at The Volt on November 10.Biggest winner of MAMAs Nigerian star Wizkid walked away a happy man at the MTV MAMAs after scooping three awards at the glitzy ceremony in Johannesburg. Wizkid walked away with awards in the Best Male, Best Collaboration (with SA s DJ Maphorisa &amp; DJ Buckz) and prestigious Artiste of the Year categories. Cassper Nyovest started the night off with a Best Live Act award, before giving a heart-stopping live performance to put the icing on the cake.There were also big awards for local artistes Emtee (Best Hip-Hop Act), and Shekhinah and Kyle Deutsch (Best Pop/Alternative Act). SA Olympic gold medallist Caster Semenya walked away with the Personality of the Year award.Nigerian artiste Yemi Alade (Best Female Act), Sauti Sol (Best Group) and Patoranking (Song of the Year) were some of the night s other big winners. Hugh Masekela was also honoured with a Legend Award, while a special tribute was held for the late Mandoza.How they dressed for the ceremony Whether their look was a hit or an epic fashion fail, the celebrities who attended the 2016 MTV MAMAs all get bonus points for paying attention to the runways at international fashion shows.Black and white were the standout colours of the night.Stars like Bonang Matheba, who looked striking in a sculptural Marchesa gown and Miss SA Ntandoyenkosi Kunene opted to wear sophisticated black head-to-toe. Personality Dineo Moeketsi whose OTT outfit didn t go down well with the fashion police on Twitter was one of those who kept it summery in all-white. Others, such as actress Minnie Dlamini and singer Yemi Alade, who won the Best Female Act award, mixed it up with a combination of the two timeless hues.There was no shortage of sparkle on the red carpet with several celebrities vying to outshine each other in sequined gowns. Top-to-toe sequin looks were also spotted on Paris runways recently in the collections of designers like Lanvin and Nina Ricci.See-through designs and lingerie-inspired dresses were prolific on the catwalks at Paris Fashion Week, where they featured in the collections of designers like Louis Vuitton and Chanel.That said, transparency is a trend that doesn t always translate well from the runway to real life as some celebrities showed on the red carpet. Get it right and sheer outfits can be feminine and sexy. Get it wrong and they can look more streetwalker than chic.The off-the-shoulder look is arguably the most easy-to-wear of all the summer 2016 fashion trends. Whether it s a top or a dress, a piece that shows off those collarbones has a subtle sexy appeal and will make you feel wonderfully feminine.More about MAMAs The MTV Africa Music Awards was conceived and created by the SVP and MD of the MTV Networks in Africa, Alex Okosi. Earlier, African artistes had been included in the MTV Europe Music Award where MTV Base Africa viewers voted for Best African artiste in the 2006 and 2007 MTV Europe Music Awards.The first awards show was held at the Velodrome, Abuja, in Nigeria on November 22, 2008 and was broadcast around the world on November 29 in conjunction with Airtel and local television channels in Africa.The show was hosted by Trevor Nelson. The awards were preceded by four concerts celebrating the musicians nominated for the awards. There were concerts featuring international and local nominees, which took place in Johannesburg, South Africa on November 5, Nairobi, Kenya on November 9, the Democratic Republic of the Congo on November 13 and Lagos, Nigeria on November 15, 2008.The 2009 event took place in Nairobi, Kenya at the Moi International Sports Centre in October 2009. In 2010, the awards were again held in Nigeria, at Eko Expo Hall in Lagos.After a three-year hiatus, Viacom International Media Networks Africa announced that the MTV Africa Music Awards would return on June 7, 2014. The event took place at the ICC, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, on July 18 2015, and on August 23, 2016 it was announced that the sixth edition of the MTV Africa Music Awards would take place in Johannesburg, South Africa, on October 22, 2016.Full list of 2016 winners:Artist of the Year: Wizkid (Nigeria)Best Female: Yemi Alade (Nigeria)Best Male: Wizkid (Nigeria)Best Group: Sauti Sol (Kenya)Best Breakthrough Act: Tekno (Nigeria)Best Live Act: Cassper Nyovest (South Africa)Best Hip-Hop in association with MTN: Emtee (South Africa)Song of the Year in partnership with Google: My Woman, My Everything Patoranking feat. Wande Coal (Nigeria)Listeners Choice: Jah Prayzah (Zimbabwe)Video of the Year: Niquer Ma Vie Youssoupha (Congo) Director: Antony Abdelli &amp; Jose EonBest Pop &amp; Alternative: Shekhinah &amp; Kyle Deutsch (South Africa)Best Francophone: Serge Beynaud (Ivory Coast)Best Lusophone: C4 Pedro (Angola)Personality of the Year in association with DStv: Caster Semenya (South Africa)Legend Award: Hugh MasekelaBest Collaboration in partnership with ABSOLUT: DJ Maphorisa feat. Wizkid &amp; DJ Buckz Soweto Baby (South Africa/Nigeria)Africa Reimagined: Vivian Onano and Mary TaedzerwaBest International: Drake (USA). Arts Reporters/Wires.