Snr Asst Comm CharambaCrime Reporter&#8212; Police and Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (ZimParks) rangers have recovered four elephant carcasses in Shapi Area, Hwange National Park, believed to have been poisoned by poachers. Chief police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba confirmed the development. No arrests have been made so far. On October 1, 2016 at around 0900hours, members of the Zimbabwe Republic Police and National Park rangers discovered four elephant carcasses during patrols. They removed the tusks from them weighing 36kg with a value of $9 000, she said.Snr Asst Comm Charamba said in a related incident, police and game rangers discovered an elephant carcass in Gonarezhou National Park while they were on patrol. The elephant had its tusks removed. They tracked a spoor and noticed three men sitting under a tree and fired two warning shots. The suspected poachers ran away leaving behind a 1.375 rifle with a magazine loaded with three live rounds, two pairs of ivory tusks, an axe, a knife and two cellphones with Mozambican lines, she said.Snr Asst Comm Charamba appealed for information that may assist in the arrest of the suspects. Anyone with such information may report at their nearest police station or call on national complaints desk on (04) 703631.Last month, four suspected poachers were arrested at a boundary fence between Hwange National Park and Tsholotsho after shooting and wounding two elephants. Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (ZimParks) rangers rushed to Vulashaba, Sipepa Area, after hearing eight gun shots during the night.They found the elephants, but the poachers escaped. An operation involving the police and rangers led to the arrest of the suspects. Police identified the suspected poachers as Felistino Shate (33) of Kwenda Village, under Chief Mazungunye in Bikita, Charles Sibonga (30) of Village Kambanjo 2, under Chief Simchembo in Gokwe, Collen Luphahla (27) of Farm 202 Copper Queen, Chief Nembudziya in Gokwe and Dubai Luphahla (34) of Siagwela village, under Chief Munenyonga Chitekete in Gokwe.