STARS OF THE FUTURE . . . Coaches and junior players from the Zimbabwe Squash Academy Trust pose for a group photograph ahead of their 7th anniversary tournament. In the picture are (kneeling, from left) Pride Masiiwa, Elwin Mupangavanhu, Moreblessed Chitima, Elton Mukumba, Davison Tanaka Chatiza, Anesuishe Marange; and (standing, from left) Dilon Madzivanyika, Anesu Mushonga, Mashumba Mukumba (coach), Moreblessing Tirita, Shayne Chitima, Blessington Kufa, Tafadzwa Chipato, Byron Chipakwe, Perfect Masiiwa and Talent Whisker Mushunje (coach).Collin Matiza: Sports EditorONE of the country s top squash academies, the Zimbabwe Squash Academy Trust, is set to host its 7th anniversary tournament at Belgravia Sports Club in Harare on November 25 and 26. The academy is the brainchild of one of the country s top squash coaches, Mashumba Mukumba, who said yesterday that the tournament would cater for different age-groups for both boys and girls. We are going to have juniors taking part in the Under-9, 11, 14, 16, 19 and 23 age-groups competition for both boys and girls. In the women s Under-23 section, we have decided to accommodate all the ladies, even those over the age of 23 since we have fewer ladies playing squash in this country We have also invited all the juniors in and around Harare, who have played in both Zimbabwe and Mashonaland squash tournaments, to take part in this event, Mukumba said.Mukumba and his fellow tournament s organisers Talent Mushunje and Malvin Mubure are also happy with the preparations they have done so far and the support that they have received from one of their sponsors SEF Prospero Capital (Pvt) Ltd. We are also looking forward to other companies who seem to be also interested in supporting this prestigious tournament to come forward and chip in with any kind of sponsorship, Mukumba said.The Zimbabwe Squash Academy Trust was formed in 2009 by Mukumba to cater for the underprivileged youth from the high-density suburbs of Harare. The trust have recruited children from different high-density suburbs of Harare, namely Kuwadzana, Dzivaresekwa, Mufakose, Budiriro, Glen View, Warren Park, Highfield, Mabvuku and Tafara.They have also extended their hand to players from Chitungwiza. We are getting support from in and outside the country since the opening of the academy. There were lots of pledges from outside and in any case, some of the pledges were like building castles in the air. As a coach I have travelled to several countries to see and learn how others are doing things there. It has been a long journey with lots of effort and hard work to be who we are today, celebrating our 7th anniversary, Mukumba said.The academy has also produced a number of players who are playing at national level in both junior and senior teams. We would like to thank SEF Prospero Capital (Pvt) Ltd, who came to our rescue when we did not expect them to agree to sponsor us in these harsh economic conditions. Before this, it has been two years since we last celebrated like this, Mukumba added.SEF Prospero Capital (Pvt) Ltd indicated that they are happy to make this prestigious tournament their annual event, where they will provide trophies, medals, refreshments and snacks to all the players.Meanwhile, the GeBe Education and Sports Foundation of Germany have indicated that they would like to enter into a partnership with the Zimbabwe Squash Academy Trust and this will see some of the academy s young players going to play in a number of top junior tournaments in the European country.Bernd Wulffen, the director and founder of the GeBe Foundation, told The Herald yesterday from his base in Hamburg, Germany, that he was more than prepared to help in nurturing young and talented squash players from Zimbabwe by exposing them to more international tournaments abroad. We understand that there s a vibrant junior squash academy there in Harare (the Zimbabwe Squash Academy Trust) and we would like to enter into a partnership with them whereby we will help them to bring some of their top players to play in a number of junior tournaments around Germany. This will give these young players the much-needed international exposure and we hope this will also see more young players from Zimbabwe taking up the sport of squash, which is played professionally here in Europe, Wulffen said.