Bishop B. Manjoro DunamisMy desire is always to see people of God embrace faith, walk and live by faith. So many times people struggle and toil because they don t live by faith. The Bible shows that Peter, John and James were perceived to be the pillars among the disciples (Galatians 2:9). However, when we study Luke 5: 4-5 we learn that Peter the luminary among the disciples initially had no or had little faith. In these verses we are told that Peter, Andrew, John and James had toiled the whole night and failed to catch the fish despite the fact that they were experienced fishermen.When Jesus instructed Peter to launch to the deepest, he initially doubted and said, We have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing . Peter was saying, what s the essence of laying down the nets again when they had caught nothing all night.In Luke 4: 38-39, Peter had experienced a portion of the power of God when Jesus healed his wife s mother.It seems Peter had followed Jesus temporarily and went back to his fishing business, being concerned about his family s welfare if he decided to follow Jesus full time.Therefore, Peter then gave Jesus a benefit of doubt and laid the net down.This story provides two major lessons. Firstly, people we reckon to be man of faith initially had no or little faith.Secondly, when one does something without faith, they tend to toil.That s why today I want to teach faith in order to minimize toiling in many people s lives.Note that there are many people with a lot of money but they toil in their lives. Toiling is different from hard work, for it involves suffering.When Peter placed the little faith in Jesus and launched the nets down, he caught 153 big fish at a go, which he had never done.In the past to get such fish he needed to toil for hours.When you have faith in God, He provides for your needs. The faith that I m talking about doesn t wait for a heap of money to be there, but it operates through declaring what you want and believing that God will provide for you.Many people want to do things when they have money, but with faith you can still do great things without necessarily having the heap of money.If you want to build a house, you don t have to wait for $30 000 to be in your bank account for you start to build.A person of faith strongly believes that once he starts the project, God has a way to provide the resources required and always multiply available resources to enable him to finish the construction work.I know God protects and heals us, but a very important role He plays in our lives is to provide for our needs and wants. So you need to have faith that God will provide for you and when you are undertaking big projects in your life, then you need to raise your faith and believe that He never forsakes you.I encourage you to have faith on both the small and big things. I remember one day in my office when I desired Lacto and I had faith that someone would bring it to me. Later in the day, one of the church members came to my office with a plastic bag.She talked with humility but when she wanted to give me her parcel, she lowered her voice with embarrassment, saying, I have something in this plastic bag but I don t know whether you eat it. Pray for me. The woman was not comfortable with the gift, but when I opened it, I saw that it was sour milk exactly what I desired.To her this was something that may be unacceptable but she met my desire.This can also happen to you when you desire something and declare it.When you want something, don t pray about the money to get it, but declare what you want. You don t know the avenue it will come from.If you want a car, have faith and declare it in your prayer rather than to say you want $4 000.By praying for the money, you limit God, because He doesn t operate through money only.I know we are at different levels in terms of faith, but I urge you to lift up your faith and aim for something bigger.If it is a house, mention it specifically, if it is a car, specifically mention its name.A child who just cries without mentioning what she wants will be beaten by her parents.But if she is specific that she wants groundnuts, her parents will provide her.In the same vein when you are specific about your request, God will grant your request.Many people are emotional when they pray, but faith is not emotions.When you are praying, you can be emotional, but things come from silent faith rooted in your heart. God doesn t reward mere crying, but crying with faith.Exercise faith in your life and you will realise that the more you walk and live by faith the less the toiling.With faith you can work hard but you don t have to suffer, or to toil as someone with no faith.Remember for with God all things are possible (Mark 10: 27).