President Mugabe hands over a symbolic key to Chief Chiswiti (left) while Air Force of Zimbabwe Commander Air Marshall Perrance Shiri (right) looks on during the official opening of Murongwe Primary School which was built by the AFZ Charity Fund in Mukumbura yesterday. (Picture by Tawanda Mudimu)Tendai Mugabe in DANDE&#8212; Government does not protect corrupt people and the law should take its course on all reported cases of graft, the President has said. The Head of State and Government and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces said anyone accused of wrongdoing should have their day in court. His remarks come in the wake of reports that the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission was investigating Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister Professor Jonathan Moyo and his deputy Dr Godfrey Gandawa for allegedly abusing Zimdef funds. The reports have been dominating the media over the past few days.Related&#8230;&#8230;. Students bay for ministers blood Acting President springs to Moyo s defence Moyo likens self to Robin Hood Ministers not immune to arrest: Lawyers Prof Moyo under fire over Robin Hood Zimdef employees face chop The Constitution is Zim s supreme law Zimdef funders speak on Moyo LOOKING BACK: Carry your crosses, Moyo tells looters Give committee looking into ZACC a chance Students unions tear into Chipanga No one above the law ED How can tackling corruption destroy Zanu-PF? Officially opening Murongwe Primary School and Clinic that were built by the Air Force of Zimbabwe Charity Fund in Dande yesterday, President Mugabe said: Hapana anokanganisa watinodzivirira. Aiwa! Munhu kana atadza atadza. Hatimudzivirire. Zvinenge zvisina kunakawo kuti anokanganisa ongovharidziriwa. Asi hatidi kuti vanhu vangonzi vakanganisa ivo vasina kukanganisa.Listen to audio here&#8230;. Toda kuti nyaya dzevanhu dziburitswe pachena vaende kumacourt vazvitaurire. Kana vaine malawyer, malawyer avo avataurira, ovadefender. Nyaya dzibude pachena. Hatidi vanhu vedu kuti vatevere mapepa. Nekuti zvabuda mumapepa party iri kuti chii? Uyu ngaabve asungwa, uyu ngaabve atandwa aiwa. Party haidaro. Zvabuda mumapepa inyaya dzemumapepa. Ngaiongororwe zvakanaka. Ko tine matareka. Nyaya dzinoenda kumatare. Kana munhu aine mhosva ane mhosva. Kana akadya mari zvobuda pachena kuti akadya mari yeparty. Nomutowo upi? Zvichitaurwa ipapo. Saka vanorangwa vorangwa, vanoenda kumajeri voenda kumajeri. President Mugabe said Zanu-PF was united and people should not listen to media reports alleging that there were divisions in the party. Mazuva ano musatevere mashoko, said the President. Musangano wakabatana. Mashoko anonyorwa muzvimapepa kana anotaurwa nevanhu. Kuno kunze vamwe kunenge kusina news. Dzimwe nguva munhu mumwechete akangonzwa zvaanzwa, kana akangotora zvaanenge atora kutelevision sezvo vamwe vatove neInternet vanokwanisa kuInternet. Zvonzi haa vanhu vari kurwisana. Ehe pakati pedu tingave nekutukana mumba but hazvirevi kuti musangano waparara kana kuti imba yedu yaparara. Aihwa. Tinogadzirisana tiri mumba medu imomo. Vanenge vakanganisa tovati makanganisa. President Mugabe called for unity and urged people to continue rallying behind the revolutionary party saying the opposition parties in their various guises would never defeat Zanu-PF. He took time to explain why Zanu-PF parted ways with former Vice President Joice Mujuru who is now leading the Zimbabwe People First party. We parted ways with Mai Mujuru and all of you were surprised on what was going on, he said. She was elected after the women had said they also wanted a woman to occupy the position of Vice President. She was then appointed to that position and I don t know what was going on in her mind. She thought that was a step ahead towards the Presidency. She then goes further to make nefarious plans, which we were not happy with as a party. We have a Congress that we held after every five years. The Congress is the one that elects leaders using powers given to it by our party constitution. That is where the leader of the party is elected and members of the Central Committee. If you become too ambitious before congress using some wicked means we then part ways with you. That is how we parted ways with her and others who include Rugare Gumbo and Didymus Mutasa. They now have their party called Zimbabwe People First. There are now too many opposition parties led by people with their own ambitions. We used to have MDC led by (Morgan) Tsvangirai. Now it has split into factions. We should not listen to those opposition parties. The ideology that you should follow is that of your revolutionary party that brought independence. President Mugabe said people might have relatives that had joined the opposition parties but they should not be swayed to follow them.Said the President: There is no opposition faction in their various guises that can defeat Zanu-PF. So continue to support Zanu-PF. Supporting the party does not only entail to having rallies but making sure that party structures are intact right from the grassroots. Our leaders at provincial level we want you to ensure that the party is strong in all districts and provinces. Go to the people and check whether people have party cards and whether they are having district meetings. He said such processes would enable the party to see its real membership. On food distribution President Mugabe said maize should not be distributed on partisan lines. He said all people were Zimbabweans first before they become members of different political parties.President Mugabe said Government was sourcing food from various countries and assured the people that no one would die of hunger. Murongwe Primary School and clinic were built by the Air Force of Zimbabwe with the assistance from various development partners and the community.The school had eight electrified class room blocks including a computer laboratory and 10 houses for the teaching staff. It has more than 600 pupils.