Tawanda Matanhire Cool lifestyle Reporter Education is a basic human right, which plays a pivotal role in combating ignorance, disease, poverty and food insecurity and is also a key to socio-economic and political transformation of any country. The relationship between education and success can never be undermined and students should understand the importance of basic education regardless of any occupation they wish to take up in life.It is wise for a student to be equipped academically even when he or she chooses to become an artiste or sports person as this will help them in so many ways as they execute different roles in life.Most parents believe that their children should stick to academics during their school going days, and even go on to choose their career paths. Yes parents and teachers mentor children to become champions of industries through academics but they also need to realise talent has so much contribution and has improved the livelihoods of many people.It s sad to note that there are parents who push their children toward a particular career path and when that child fails to achieve much to their expectations, they become angry. The child suffers emotionally.The child would have been forced into doing something he or she never liked. Children therefore need to defend themselves by working hard both in their academics and on the abstract path. When your academics are good possibilities are that whatever industry you choose, you will be successful.For example if one becomes a successful musician, he needs to be intellectually equipped enough to manage a band, finances, be able to understand contractual agreements and so forth. Academics will mould the talent to produce a successful artiste or sportsman.Several students from different institutions across Harare seemed to echo the same sentiments in several interviews with The Herald Cool Lifestyle. It is wise for students to work hard in their academics because they will be able to make informed decisions even when they are into sport or arts and craft. If you are to do anything at an international level you must be intellectually sound, said Nomsa Kachidza from Wise Owl High School.Antony Miti, a student at Marlborough High School said: Education has always been the key. From what I was taught, if someone is not educated in most cases they fail in life and die poor. Yes, there are cases where someone could just make it without basic education but they always face difficulties especially their communication skills. Tapiwa Munemo at student at Zengeza High school added: Our country is full of educated people, so one has to be learned to be competent otherwise opportunities will pass you just because you lack basic education. Another student Kudzayi Mutero from Churchill Boys High School said: Every parent sends his kids to school because they want them to be equipped for their future which shows how important basic education is. These are just a few among many others who value education. Yes you can be a good painter or dancer among other arts but at least you need to be schooled enough to be able to sustain such careers. In short basic education plays an important role to every child.