MIDDLESBOROUGH. Jose Holebas s powerful strike saw Watford to a 1-0 win away to Middlesbrough in the English Premier League soccer match yesterday. Victory saw Watford climb to ninth in the table but the result condemned northeast side Middlesbrough to a fourth defeat in five league matches. Greece international Holebas s goal was a rare highlight in a largely uninspiring contest where referee Roger East turned down several penalty appeals of varying merit at the Riverside Stadium. I m very satisfied because we won an away game in such a difficult stadium, Watford manager Walter Mazzari told the BBC. I m mainly (satisfied) with the character of the team but I m less satisfied on the overall performance. He added: In the first half we were allowing too much on the right side and in the second half we managed to make some modifications and stopped them attacking on the right side and we re happy about this. I m happy. It s going very well. We could ve had one or two points more at this stage. We ve been playing all the games well with the exception of Burnley away. Disappointed Boro boss Aitor Karanka added: We played the first 35 minutes really good and I told them at half-time we couldn t play the way they were playing in the last 10-15 minutes. The second half we couldn t play. Had we scored the chances we created at the beginning of the game maybe we d have won the game. When they scored it was impossible to play. They re really experienced players. We need to learn and keep going. The only way we know how to play is the way we played the first 35 minutes. Middlesbrough had the greater share of possession in the first half but rarely threatened the Hornets goal.Stewart Downing fired a third-minute half-volley over the crossbar and Gaston Ramirez dragged a shot wide.Middlesbrough s Alvaro Negredo had a penalty appeal rejected as he went down under the combined challenge of Younes Kaboul and Nordin Amrabat, who was fortunate to escape sanction for grabbing his opponent s shirt.Moments later, Boro had a far less convincing penalty shout when Downing headed against Amrabat s arm from point-blank range before firing the rebound wide of goal.Boro defender Ben Gibson tried his luck with a 35-yard shot but the match was still goalless come half-time.The home side appealed unsuccessfully for a penalty early in the second half when Negredo went to ground following a challenge by Holebas. AFP.