Fungai Lupande Court Reporter&#8212; A WOMAN who won $10 000 during the OK Zimbabwe Grand Challenge promotion lost all of it to conmen after she was sold a housing stand that belonged to someone else. Sarah Mapfumo saw an advert in the media suggesting that Stand Number 7670, Tynwald South in Harare, was for sale. The stand measured 500 square metres. It is alleged that Mapfumo contacted the owner of the stand, Givemore Chifamba, who referred her to Charles Hamadziripi.The court heard that Chifamba claimed Hamadziripi was his nephew. The stand was selling for $16 000, but Mapfumo negotiated the price down to $13 000. She offered to pay $10 000 through bank transfer and the balance via instalments.It is alleged that on December 18 2015, Mapfumo met Hamadziripi in Harare and he identified himself as Tendai Makoni, an estate agent and nephew to Chifamba. Mapfumo was shown fake title deeds and was asked to go to the Deeds office to verify.It is alleged Mapfumo did not see an anomaly or reason to visit the Deeds Office. She went to view the stand instead. The court heard that on December 21 the same year, Mapfumo was introduced to Chifamba and his wife Marble.She allegedly signed an agreement of sale and paid a deposit of $1 500. She gave OK Zimbabwe Chifamba s bank account details. OK Zimbabwe transferred the $10 000. Mapfumo also deposited $300 into an EcoCash account on mobile number 0776 819 823, which was fraudulently registered.On February 2, Mapfumo tried to contact Hamadziripi so that she could pay her instalment but he was not reachable. Suspicious, Mapfumo went to the Registrar of Deeds Office and discovered that the title deeds she was given were fake.Investigation revealed that national identity documents used were fraudulently acquired and were used to open a bank account. She later spotted Hamadziripi in town leading to his arrest.Hamadziripi appeared before Harare magistrate Mrs Vongai Muchuchuti-Guwuriro last week. He is facing fraud charges and was remanded in custody to today for bail application.