TAKING NO PRISONERS . . . Tough-talking former Dynamos captain Memory Mucherahowa (left) and his ex-CAPS United counterpart Joe Mugabe (right), sandwich former sports journalist Clemence Marijeni before a football match for Zimbabweans based in England last year before Marijeni was slapped with a 10-year jail term by British authorities this week for being part of a ring that organised sham marriages in the United KingdomGrace Chingoma: Senior Sports ReporterFORMER Warriors defender George Mbwando s offer to assist the Warriors technical team with spying assignments in Europe ahead of the 2017 Nations Cup finals has sparked huge social media debate. Mbwando, who is based in Germany and was a member of the pioneer group of Warriors to grace the Nations Cup finals, revealed he would be interested to travel around Europe gathering data on players likely to play against Zimbabwe in Gabon.He said he could then pass such data to Warriors coach Callisto Pasuwa to help the gaffer in his preparation of the Warriors for their tough assignments. The data, said Mbwando, could include weaknesses or strengths of the players likely to face the Warriors.Mbwando made it clear he wasn t interested in being drafted into the Warriors technical staff. However, it has sparked huge debate and showed how much Zimbabwe football remains deeply divided.THOSE AGAINST MBWANDO S SUGGESTIONFormer Dynamos skipperMemory Mucherahowa Mumwe nekuno vamwe nekoko. Hanzi toda kubatsira Pasuwa. Paaienda negudza nebhazi kunge vaienda kurufu maivepi? Ndoona, ndimi murikutoda kubatsirwa naPasuwa kuti muite mbiri. Siyai Pasuwa aite zvaari kuita. Warriors fan Alywn Aluvha Zhakata I find your latest offer to help the Warriors by travelling around Europe on a holiday trip disguised as a spying mission for our beloved Warriors to be absurd, sorry to say, said Zhakata. There are many times, Mr Mbwando, when you were needed and you never chipped in. In the Zimbabwe football library, your name is in the same shelf with Peter Ndlovu and Benjani Mwaruwari who have helped the national team with air tickets, hotel bookings et cetera. You have been staying in Germany for close to 20 years Mr Mbwando, what have you done for the team? I understand kuwana kunosiyana, but honestly you tell me you cannot afford to buy even a soccer ball for the training session? Mr Mbwando sometime in July 2013 Knowledge Musona hit a low key when he got loaned out to Kaizer Chiefs by a German club. While I agree with your notion that this was a step backwards, the young man needed a hug, a big one from a veteran like you, not me. Instead you blasted him in the media, describing his move as disappointing retrogressive, going from university back to high school . . . bla bla. Musona needed you then, and you were not there for him. Is it not incredible that you want to help him now? Offering to assist Pasuwa whose team selection you criticised on Facebook after the draw in Swaziland and Tatenda Mukuruva who was part of locals whom you lambasted after the CHAN tournament leaves a lot to be desired. Warriors fan Joseph Chimwenje Without taking anything away from the legendary Mbwando, Aluva might be right here guys. I have noticed with great concern that most people only want to be associated with success, but no one wants to be part of building it. Warriors fan Felton Feel Tindo Dune: Using media to offer help is just a mere attention-seeking style. Those who really need to help Pasuwa know where to get him. Warriors fan NicksonSchiesman Museyamwa Why can t he contact Pasuwa directly and offer his advice, instead of going via Herald House? He is the same Mbwando who talked crap after the Swaziland game. If he was organising a training camp or a couple of friendlies the better but gallivanting over Europe studying opponents is not a matter of concern now. We are more worried of our own preps which are highly inadequate and lack of friendlies. THOSE IN MBWANDO S CORNERWarriors fan ThandananiChubbychecker Mwendamberi, I respect you, asi team yeku Division 1 when it s promoted kupinda mu Premier they change a few things in their set-up so they can compete mu Premier League. If they don t beef up team yavo they will be relegated. I think if there are able people with the expertise to assist Pasuwa with the intelligence pane chakaipa here? Maonerewo angu, no disrespect Mwendamberi. Warriors fan PrinceP Zinja-Ncube This is really insane. We have a patriot willing to give up his time and continue with his duties for country as he has done in the past, then sinister people ridicule his suggestion. George only offered to do what all professional football teams/countries do, that is scouting for opposition and getting as much information as possible to the advantage of our Warriors. Remember it s not just going to be a walk on the park. Grateful for your patriotism bro(ther). Down with draw backers. Warriors fan Bongwi Defao What people must know is that this tournament is different from qualifying games. You can be in a mediocre group and qualify. Here it s a convergence of the best of the continent. This time it won t be about lucky, maporofita or madzibaba (because) team yese iriko inazvo zvese. Here it will be all about game plan in a fast-paced competition and you need a pool of minds to sail through. If you are lucky to have experienced persons volunteering their services, you must embrace that with both hands. If you win zvinongonzi ndi Pasuwa so hapana mbiri iri threatened. Ego will not take us anywhere, especially chimbimbindoga. South Africa once qualified and came back without a score. We have also been found wanting before when our technical team was exposed for lack of tactical depth. Ngatimboitai zvebhora tisiye mahumbwe. If an ordinary club can have a wide pool of technical experts on its bench what of a national team? Zvekufuga magumbeze muna Munorurama muchino hwina kuMalawi zvakapfuura nenguva yazvo. Iyi yava Afcon 2017. Kana varamba George usawore moyo at least you made your suggestion. Like you have said, it doesn t have to be you. Peter (Ndlovu) has just won a continental championship surely he has learnt something and can be useful. Mhlauri (Charles) is doing wonders in USA, others are in UK. The team remains Pasuwa s team but ava chavo kumupa maoptions iye otora zvaanowona zvichimuitira, chete. 