Herald ReporterAB communications, the company that owns ZiFM Stereo yesterday dismissed suggestions that it was an undeserving beneficiary of the Zimbabwe Manpower Development Fund (ZIMDEF). We categorically deny any allegation of wrongdoing and hereby put it on record that AB Communications has only had a $12 000 worth of advertising business with ZIMDEF between February and September 2016, said group chief executive Mrs Susan Makore in a statement.She said the firm was hired because of its exceptional expertise and coordination because some of the inventory and facilities they have are not available in the country, hence it was hired by the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary education Education, Science and Technology Development to offer services related to STEM. This is a matter of public record. Flighted advertisements reveal our company s association with the product. The necessary agreements for this work are in place and a record of the work done for this project is all available. We also confirm that AB Communications has worked for and with several other clients locally and internationally providing its exceptional services and state-of-the-art outdoor events equipment. These organisations include the organisers of the Million Man March, said Mrs Makore. All work done by AB Communications was invoiced directly to the institutions that sought the services and at no point in our dealings did we invoice ZIMDEF for any work done or not done (except the $12 000 worth of advertising already mentioned). We categorically deny any claim and/or allegation that the company unjustifiably benefited from public funds. We believe these allegations are malicious. On the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission investigations, Mrs Makore said they were approached by the ministry s Deputy Minister Dr Godfrey Gandawa to provide the investigating arm with all evidence related to the transaction they had with the ministry. We complied. As a private business organisation, we offer goods and services to any paying client. AB Communications is blind to any client s political, religious affiliations, colour or any other allegiances.Therefore, AB Communications wishes to caution those peddling falsehoods through public, private and social media platforms to desist forthwith from making allegations that are malicious, baseless and unfounded. The company reserves the right to take legal action against individuals and institutions that will continue to peddle such lies which are only meant to drag our good name into public disrepute. 