Tonderai NdirayaSikhumbuzo Moyo Bulawayo Bureau Ngezi Platinum . . .(0) 1 Highlanders . .. . . . . . . 0 AFTER 810 minutes Highlanders finally succumbed to defeat at the hands of a fired-up and tactically disciplined Ngezi Platinum that booted the championship-chasing Bulawayo giants out of the Chibuku Super Cup at Barbourfields yesterday. It will now be an all-platinum affair in the November 5 final as FC Platinum handed Harare City a 3-0 hiding in another semi-final at Mandava on Saturday.Highlanders were condemned by a 62nd Liberty Chakoroma penalty, which was awarded after defender, Peter Muduhwa had handled inside the box. It is the second penalty inside a week that Muduhwa, who needs to stay level headed, has conceded. I think I have to talk to him about his game, he did not play well today, said a disappointed Highlanders coach Erol Akbay.The home side announced their intention as early as the 11th minute when Chakoroma forced a diving save from goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda with his outside the box shot. Bosso responded after five minutes with Gabriel Nyoni who headed over the bar a brilliant swinger from man of the moment Rahman Kutsanzira.Kutsanzira won possession from the centre line, charged forward and in the process rode two tackles before getting into the box and expertly brought in a cross that was met by a running Nyoni who unfortunately headed over the bar.Ngezi Platinum refused to be cowed into submission and executed their own attack in the 22nd minute though Nelson Ketala who made a solo run from the left flank before delivering a cross that found an unmarked Kenneth Bulaji inside the 12 yard box but the former Dynamos striker failed to compose himself as he was unmarked resulting in him heading over the bar, when he was almost under the bar.Referee Normore Musundire flashed his first yellow card in the 26th minute in the face of Byron Madzokore after the centre-back had struck Nyoni with a fist in an aerial ball tussle. As the first half progressed Highlanders began to enjoy better territorial advantage but still failed to breach the Ngezi Platinum defence so well marshalled by Partson Jaure.The first half ended with neither side finding any breakthrough. In the second half Highlanders pulled out an injured Simon Munawa and brought in dribbling menace King Nadolo who, however, failed to change the complexion of the game despite a few and rare moments of brilliance.Bulaji shook his head in disbelief in the 56th minute after his shot was well taken care of by Ariel. Two minutes later Tonderayi Ndiraya s charges took control of the scoreboard digits after a moment of madness on the part of Muduhwa who handled a harmless shot inside the box.A goal down Bosso made a tactical substitution and changed their shape, pulling out right back Tendai Ngulube for veteran forward Ralph Matema as they searched for an equaliser which, however, never came. I am over the moon, it s not a usual case that one comes here and beat Highlanders. Today we were in control of the situation and I felt we could have scored three or four goals in the first half, credit to the boys, said Ndiraya.Teams: Ngezi Platinum: Nelson Chadya, Nelson Ketala (Davison Tafari, 85th min), Partson Jaure, Byron Madzokore, James Marufu (Donald Taguru, 59th min), Edgar Tapera, Walter Mukanga (Washington Pakamisa, 85th min), Liberty Chakoroma, Kenneth Bulaji, James Nguluve, Tatenda Mchisa.Highlanders: Ariel Sibanda, Rahman Kutsanzira, Simon Munawa (King Nadolo, 51st min), Prince Dube, Tendai Ndlovu, Tendai Ngulube (Ralph Matema, 67th min), Peter Muduhwa, Honest Moyo, Erick Mudzingwa, Gabriel Nyoni, Allen Gahadzikwa