Mr MarandureThe year 2016 has been a year of reckoning for Zimbabwe s leading Internet Service provider ZOL as we have been driven by determination, good leadership and team work to not only deliver on our goals, but also strive to be the best in our industry. This has seen ZOL receiving awards and recognition for its efforts in marketing, customer service excellence and leadership. On October 21 the Marketers Association of Zimbabwe (MAZ) awarded ZOL s CEO Denny Marandure with the Marketing Oriented CEO of the Year Award at the 2016 MAZ Annual Awards ceremony, held at the Elephant Hills Hotel in Victoria Falls.This becomes the 2nd year running that Denny has won this award, a clear indication of his leadership excellence in the field of marketing. The country s leading ISP, ZOL Zimbabwe, was also nominated for and received the following awards:Best Creative TV Ad 2016 (Fibroniks Lite)Second Runner Up Integrated Promotional CampaignSecond Runner Up Radio Advert of the Year (I need ZOL Life)Second Runner Up Customer Engagement ExcellenceFirst Runner up Website of the YearTo add onto the accolade he received, Denny was conferred the distinguished status of Fellow in the Chartered Institute of Consumer Management, (F-CICM) a reflection of his leadership qualities that have been the mainstay of ZOL s rise to be the best Internet Service Provider in Zimbabwe.Mr Marandure had this to say: I would like to thank Zimbabwe Business Awards for this well deserved award. Broadband communications is the pivotal technological innovation in the 21st century, which has brought about widespread and dramatic impact on our society and is the biggest driver of economic growth. I feel honoured and glad to play my part in this technological revolution. Of course I cannot take sole credit for these awards. At ZOL Zimbabwe, we work as a team and believe that team work wins championships. ZOL Zimbabwe is small but a growing company. Therefore what got us these awards and many others is not our size, BEST is our strength. At the cornerstone of our value creation is the quality of our network and the network experience that our parent company, Liquid Telecom has worked so hard to make it possible for us to offer such an immaculate service to homes and business alike. We never let a day go by when we don t challenge ourselves to find ways to do things better than we did yesterday. It s at the very core of our company, the core of our culture and the drive of our employees. More work remains to be done, because there is no point having arrived you remain. We must prove ourselves worthy of these awards and we look forward to another fruitful and productive 2017. While being rewarded for efforts in 2016 is a chapter that one can always look back upon for inspiration, it is also a fact that these awards present ZOL a challenge to retain these prizes in 2017 and improve on where the company did not come out on top. These awards are good, but as Denny often says where better is expected, good is not good , thereby laying down a gauntlet that Team ZOL has to tackle in 2017.To find out more about what it is that makes ZOL the best Internet Service Provider and how you can get the best online experience, download our myZOL App on IOS or Android platforms for free, or visit our website www.zol.co.zw, drop into any of our shops located in Harare, Mutare and Bulawayo, or call us on 08677 111 111 for a connection, ZON . . . make that connection, because you deserve to live like this.