Zimpraise ChoirTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts Reporter &#8212; Nigerian gospel sensation Osinachi Kalu, popularly known as Sinach, flies in tomorrow at 11pm for her concert scheduled for this weekend at Glamis Arena. It will be her second show in the country after her 2013 performance at Harare International Conference Centre. Sinach will share the stage with another Nigerian gospel minister Assent Tweed who has been added on the list of performers.The event is hosted by Black Studios and will also see local acts such as Pastor Micheal Mahendere, Zimpraise Choir and UFIC Choir among others. In an interview with one of the organisers Rose Nyachowe said all is set for the concert. The stage set-up is already in progress. Assent Tweed is arriving tomorrow (today) while Sinach s team together with her husband arrives around 1130am on Friday. We have added Assent Tweed to the list of performers and we are giving an opportunity to our local gospel musicians to share the stage with these internationally acclaimed stars. We are pleased to be having our own local musicians rubbing shoulders with such an artiste who has the gift of worshipping. We believe they will have a lot learn from her and above all, will receive a spiritual impartation, she said.She said tickets are still selling and there is now a special arrangement made to have more people. We are now experiencing high demand in ticket sales and we have now made some arrangements where children will pay only $5 or $25 for VIP and get free T-shirts. Special guests tickets are going for US$50 and VIP US$100, she said.SinachSinach is an award winning songwriter, worship leader, recording artiste and key member of the Love World Music team of Christ Embassy who started singing at a very young age.She is one of the most famous singers in Nigeria today with her hit gospel albums and hit singles such as Way Maker , He Did It Again , All I See Is You , Awesome God and This Is Your Season among others.She comes from a family of seven where she is the second daughter. She studied physics at the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Her mentor is Pastor Chris Oyakhilome of Christ Embassy.Her father initially objected to her musical career saying she would be poor as a musician and that musicians amount to nothing. It was when she met Pastor Chris that he changed her perspective.As a songwriter who has written over 200 songs and won several awards, Sinach believes in writing from her heart. She has written songs such as Awesome God , Simply Devoted , I am ready for Your Spirit , Shout of the King , All Things are Possible , Born to Win , Fire in Me , More of You , No Failure with God and This is Your Season , which won the Song of the Year Award in 2008.She has won several awards through the years and among them, the prestigious LoveWorld Awards for Song Writer and Vocalist of The Year. She has also won awards for her work in providing praise and worship music material for the church in 2007, 2008 and 2009.