Ivan Zhakata Herald Reporter DANHIKO Secondary School has embraced the new education curriculum for 2017 aimed at equipping students with entrepreneurial skills. Danhiko Project is a school for pupils with disabilities which instils intellectual, physical, moral and cultural values to enable them to become useful and self-reliant citizens. It also enrols pupils without disabilities. The school held its prize-giving ceremony last Friday where 112 students, who excelled in different subjects and sports, were rewarded.Speaking during the prize-giving ceremony graced by Dr Abicia Ushewokunze, Danhiko Secondary School headmaster Mr Tawanda Musariri said the school was already training its staff on the new curriculum. A new curriculum will be rolled-out with effect from 2017 and at the moment our teachers are being trained for the new curriculum, he said. The implementation will start with ECD (Early Childhood Development), Grade Ones at primary level and Form One, Three and Five at secondary level. The old colonial education system is being replaced by a new home grown education which is worth embracing as a school. Mr Musariri said their enrolment figures have dropped this year from above 300 students last year to 286.Some parents are failing to afford fees for their children. Most parents have been struggling to pay school fees for their children and some of them had to transfer their children, depriving the school of the much-needed cash to sustain itself and meet other obligations. Some of our students have their fees still to be paid by BEAM and this fund is not forthcoming. We last received payment for their third term in 2014 and there is now a limit to the amount given to schools. Each Special school like ours is now allocated $46 000 per annum which translates to fees payment for only 15 learners with disabilities at this school, said Mr Musariri.Dr Ushewokunze said education played an important role in the advancement of children and should be taken seriously. Education plays a pivotal role in the realisation of the national vision as it knits together all the different threads that lead to emergency of a united, strong, democratic, prosperous and egalitarian nation, he said. There is so much thrust on education the world over because people have since realised the power and influence education has on the existence and development of any country. We are heavily investing in you boys and girls because we want you to unlock and open the gates of our economic emancipation, said Dr Ushewokunze.