Bishop B. Manjoro DunamisThe presence of God manifest in two major ways. There is the presence of God that you can really feel; though you cannot touch it, you still feel that there is a supernatural presence of God. Secondly, the presence of God can also be silent and it might appear like He is not around, but He will be present.Either way, the presence of God is important in a believer s life.In 2 Samuel 6, we see King David taking 30 000 men to go and collect the ark of God. In those days, the ark of God represented the presence of God. Unlike Saul who did not care to take the ark to Jerusalem, David says, he could not continue to rule without the ark of God- that is, without the presence of God.However, they put the ark of God on the cart, and when the oxen shook it, it appeared like it was going to fall and Uzzah tried to support it.This angered God, because He didn t need that support, thus Uzzah died there.David abandoned this mission because he was afraid and he left the ark of God at the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.Since the ark of God had the presence of God, the LORD blessed Obed-Edom and his entire household.The Ark of the Covenant brought tremendous blessing to the house of Obed-Edom in just three months.If we consider the socio-economic setting of that day we can assume that his cattle were now giving two or three calves; his goats breeding three or four kids at a go and his chicken probably 50 to 80 chicks.Just three months in the presence of God was enough for people to notice significant and supernatural prosperity in the household of Obed-Edom.What happened to Obed-Edom can also occur to us. When the presence of God is in your house, things will never be the same again.The presence of God brings blessing not only to you but to your spouse, kids and even relatives.The presence of God turns the dry ground into an evergreen garden.The presence of God turns a struggling company into a profitable one.The presence of God unties things that were blocking your progress.The presence of God brings peace, love and joy in your family.The presence of God brings success in everything that you touch.The presence of God enables your hands, mind and spirit to be fruitful.The presence of God soothes tight situations in your life.The presence of God breaks and dissolves the curses declared in your life.The presence of God changes your cry into laughter.The presence of God prospers you at your workplace.The presence of God heals and restores your broken and torn heart; piece by piece it touches and heals even the bleeding inside!O I love the presence of God!When Elijah visited that widow at Zarephath (1 Kings 17) he demanded to eat first using the little ingredients that was left in the household. Because of the presence of God with Elijah, the barrel of flour and cruise of oil of the widow did not finish until the rains came.This teaches us that the presence of God multiplies resources. I always teach that when the glory of God is with your money, you can achieve greater things compared to those with more money than you.Indeed, even what happened at Zarephath can also occur to you in a different way.You might wonder how the 2kg of sugar had served your family for a month or two.When the presence of God is in your household it works the miracle of multiplication in different ways.The presence of God brings divine protection. In Job chapter 1, we see Satan complaining to God that there is nothing he could do to Job because God put a hedge around him and his household.This teaches us the when the presence of God is in your house, he protects you, family, business and your interests.Today wherever you are you, I encourage you to lift up you faith and invite the presence of God in your life.When David heard that Obed-Edom was prospering, he went with a different strategy to fetch the ark of God. He took priests and carried the ark of God to Jerusalem. David knew that the presence of God during his reign was essential to success.To show the importance David valued the presence of God, when the ark of God was arriving in the city, David danced before the LORD with all his might (2 Samuel 6: 14). If you know the importance of God s presence, you will value it, cherish it and do everything possible to be in that presence and keep it.For things to change for the better you definitely require the presence of God. Even the silent presence of God in your life is enough to change your mourning into dancing; your sorrow into laughter. Desire and seek the presence of God continuously.Always remember, For with God all things are possible Mark 10: 27.