Bishop Bartholomew Manjoro: Dunamis The number one enemy for any living being on earth is not necessarily what many people think; it s not your neighbours or even your critics. The number one enemy of any living being is being average. Average gives you comfort with where you are, what you have and the way you are living. It does not permit you to see beyond today and beyond what you have and where you are now. This is the worst enemy of humanity. Average is pervasive in many people s lives, and from observation, more than 50 percent of people are either average or are even below average. Thus, currently the majority of marriages, work performances, businesses and even Christians can easily be classified as average.Today, I want to challenge you to move and sail above the average. You can tap into the power of God s Word; that will allow you to fight and break the bondage of being average and actually navigate above average.The first thing you require to transition above average is to refuse to be comfortable with where you are. God s idea is that just as one grows physically so should all areas of life grow. You were once a baby but have been growing, so should your finances, image, position and all you touch grow and prosper. Jesus came that we may have life; life not in halves or quarters, but life in abundance (John 10:10).You can be the best in that sporting activity, art, career, family, or any field you are in. Refuse to be average. Like David in the Bible, fight for everything that is yours, fight to be above average. The Bible says, A man s gift maketh room for him and bringeth him before great man. (Proverbs 18: 16). This essentially means that God deposited gifts and talents that will lift you up above average and allows you to mingle with people in high positions, not as a servant but as equal to them.The second thing that you need to have for you to move from being average is to have desire. If you want nothing and desire nothing, you will die average. My dear, fight; refuse to think and believe you are okay in life; okay in your hurting marriage, okay with the small car you have, okay with the struggle you still have in your budget and finances refuse to be okay.Tell yourself, I am where I am on my way to where I am supposed to be, this is not where I belong! Fight. You must want something in life. You must want a better life; better family, better health, better budget, always desire something better, bigger and higher.One major problem many people make in life is living from a defensive side of life. You will always be running around to mend something, to correct, repair and cry out for something the devil will have stolen or thrown at you. Always complaining about wayward children, troublesome spouse, a hard boss at work, frail health and piling bills in your house?No, don t live on the defensive. Switch sides. Live on the offensive. When you live on the offensive you hardly have anything to defend because you will be the one giving the devil a hard time, claiming and taking what belongs to you.Good health, obedient children, a loving spouse, promotion at work, prosperity, being the head, above and number one will be your daily portion and provisions in Christ Jesus. You will also not have the language of I can t, I can t , on your mouth, No! You will declare and say, I can, I can. Don t live five years on the defensive get offensive.Dear brother or sister, your mouth from today should not and never say I can t . Don t be defensive. Say I can, I can do it, I can have it, I can take it, and it s mine! O hallelujah! You can do all things through Christ who strengthens you.Stand on the Word of God and use it to attack and pull down the wiles of the enemy. Fight and take what belongs to you with God s Word.A critical ingredient required to break from average is the transformation of your thinking and your perception. Jesus can shift your mentality and put you in your rightful place in life. He made you a king and a priest. Refuse to think below the standard of God s Word for your life fight to be above average.Your association and relationship with Jesus, the King of Lings and Lord of Lords is your key and step in breaking average. If they tell you, Ah in your family no one succeeds; no one drives a car, no one gets married; all are cursed and have bad luck that follows the bloodline - reject these. I have a good word for you you are now of the bloodline of Jesus! It s not a bloodline of fear, failure, poverty, mediocrity and bad luck in life, No! It s a bloodline of victory, success, dominion and being great in all you touch!To illustrate it better and help you catch the picture, God s picture, imagine being alone at home and the President visits you. Neighbours looking on as he walks and knocks at your door to enter.You open and he enters and eats with you, sitting on those sofas of yours! Even if he later goes the way you see yourself or how people saw you in that community will change. It will never be the same again! You will view yourself with esteem, value and importance.O hallelujah it s the same dear friend; Jesus is standing at your door, knocking, wanting to come into your life to dine with you! (Revelations 3: 20-21).No matter your background and experiences, you can allow Jesus to come into your life and situation and cause it to turn around! Average is not your portion. Jesus can break the average and cause you to be somebody and climb up the ladder of life. Allow him. With men it is impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible! (Mark 10: 27).As the President might be standing at your door, so is Jesus, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords standing at your door, knocking!He wants you to come out of being average. He wants your marriage, family, studies, health and the work of your hands to rise above average.If the head of state and government s knock and visit would change your stature in community so powerfully like that, how much more the Lord Jesus Christ standing at your door right now, knocking? Friend, will you let him in? Will you allow and welcome Jesus to come in and dine with you?No-matter your background and experiences, you can allow Jesus to come into your life and situation and cause it to turn around! Average is not your portion. Jesus can break the average and cause you to be somebody and climb up the ladder of life. Allow him. With men it is impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible! (Mark 10: 27).