Herald ReportersPolice have expressed concern at the rise in murder cases countrywide, which recently went up by 23 percent during one week this month. According to police statistics, the increase was recorded during the week ending October 11, 2016. Chief police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba yesterday challenged all leaders in communities to educate people on the sanctity of human life. During the week ending 11 October, 2016, murder cases rose by three, that is from 13 the previous week to 16 cases during the week under review translating to a 23 percent increase, she said.She said five of the cases resulted from disputes after drinking binges, three from domestic violence, while in the other cases the victims found dead after being stabbed by unknown as- sailants.Snr Asst Comm Charamba urged people to exercise restraint during disputes. She said it was disheartening to note that despite efforts by the police and community leaders to educate people on the sanctity of human life, some people did not take heed. The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to urge people to resolve their differences amicably without resorting to violence. They should seek counselling from local police stations, leaders and church elders. Members of the public should value the sanctity of human life and ensure that differences are solved peacefully. We are appealing to all members with positions in society to think seriously about making a difference in speaking against murders at all public gatherings, Snr Asst Comm Charamba said.Meanwhile, eight Harare men who were on remand for the past three years for robbing and killing a police officer who was on his way home from the Chibuku Road to Fame finals at the Harare Showgrounds were yesterday given a trial date.The eight are Michael Ziira, Raymond Maguri, Alois Samuel, Shadreck Binze, Matthew Murehwa, Daniel Mabhena, Kudakwashe Chikukwa and Blessing Mungofa. Their trial was set for March 6, 2017 at the High Court.They are yet to be indicted. Harare magistrate Ms Bianca Makwande said the High Court wrote a letter raising concerns over the State s failure to try the accused for three years. Prosecutor Mr Peter Kachirika alleged that on September 28, 2013 the deceased &#8211; Timothy Mbova &#8211; reported for duty at Harare Central Police Station.It is the State case that he was deployed at the Chibuku Road to Fame finals at Harare Showgrounds from 10pm to 2am the following day. At the end of the music show, the police officer went to Harare Central Police Station where he was paid US$48, the court heard.It is alleged that at the station, he changed into civilian clothing and packed his uniform in a satchel which contained $400 and two Nokia cellphones. He left the station to look for transport to Mabvuku where he lived.Around 5am, the police officer was found dead, lying half-naked along Twentydales Road in Hatfield, it is alleged. A post-mortem revealed that he died due to suffocation.On October 1, the police received information that Maguri was in possession of Mbova s cellphone. He was arrested and the cellphone recovered. He implicated Samuel, leading to the arrest of the others.