There is always a person assigned to you by God who is able to help you. Being close is one thing and learning from that person is another thing. Look around you, there is a person who dresses well, better than you do and it s not something that happens once, but you have seen consistency on the person, but still you do not want that person as your friend.Based on what that person is able to achieve and you know you struggle in that area and that person can help you. Why do you not go and ask where they are buying their clothes and how they are managing?There are people who have been around me for a very long time, they have not missed even one service, but when they are tested, the way they respond to the issue is like they are not even born again. The level of anger, their emotions, the misunderstanding. I expect any person who is close to me to understand. If a person tells you that I am close to Makandiwa, one sign that you should see on the person is understanding. If the person does not understand then he has never been close to me, they are just lying.I have seen people and heard people say we were together with Mr so and so. I did my survey and realised that there are no two people who grew up in the same place, whether they were twins in the same place, but the environments were different. They say I grew up with Warren Buffet or Mr Strive Masiyiwa, usually the manner in which they say it is more of undermining the person. If you grew up in the same environment with him why are you different from him?In any environment you walk into, you must walk out with a lesson. Learn because school is not a building, interact with people and learn something new from somebody. If it is money that he is managing one day he will have to come and see you managing finances. This is what shocked Jesus because his disciples were not able to cast out a demon. They were not learning anything because they were in a different environment. There is something wrong with you if you stay in the same environment with influential people and you remain the same. If you see something happening, keep on asking questions.Do you think I did not have many friends? I had a lot of them and many people just liked to have what I have, but they have never asked me questions like how do you do it? They think that by virtue of being close they would have everything I have.I have spoken of this Pastor I went bird shooting with. If he had not asked me how I did it, he was going to pray and fast for something that he should have only mastered in the natural, looking at the shadow. Ask questions and people will tell you how they are doing it. How do you see a couple that has been married for 30 or 40 years walking together holding hands and you do not visit them to salute them and ask questions?Don t ignore mentors, don t ignore people who have gone ahead of you. Do not learn through pain, learn through mentorship. Pain is something that other people enjoy every time. There are people who enjoy going through pain, but you should be different in order to be successful.He sees a sign post showing that the road is a close, but still they want to drive through. There are people who can see a road sign, but still continue driving up to the end then come back. Whether there are signs they still want to experience it for themselves. You will have mentees coming to learn, it will be a blessing if you are able to release them so that they can experience pain.There are people at your workplace that you will have to dismiss because they think they could be making more money if they were working for another organisation. They will always want to go and they will always feel like that. You have to learn to release them and they have to go through the experience. Some of you who are not successful in life always want to blame your fathers and mentors. You need to be a good mentee, a good son and daughter. A better life can come from that relationship even if the father is bad. What produces a good son is not the father, look at Solomon and Absolom, how can a person be so different from his father yet they had one covering? As a son and as a daughter you have to be different, it s a choice you will have to make.Remember one father who had two sons and one wanted to stay and the other one wanted to leave (prodigal son) being close to such a prosperous man doesn t really mean that you were close. There was such an amazing difference because he lost everything and came back broke. I see this in many of our young people, take them to successful people, they will never rise because they do not know what questions to ask or the right things to say. They do not know what to say because they do not want to serve greatness. You can find someone that you admire, carry his briefcase, it s as simple as that. A serious business person who has everything in terms of money is looking for one person who is willing to learn. Do not give excuses that he is always busy. Find time to sit down and learn from that person. Every rich person is in need of a mentee who is willing to learn because everyone else around them is in need of his money. Many of the people who come to him are just parasites. Every rich person is desperately in need of a mentee who is coming to get information to learn and not money. If you can go and prove that you are not after money he will help you, obviously they have a way of checking.But if you want a better life, have someone who can mentor you and if he gives you access into his life, for example, if he allows you to carry his bag, that alone indicates that something has started, I would even teach you how to carry his bag.I remember one day when I was with my father when we flew to London. On our way back at the airport as I was carrying his bag because when I am with him I always carry his bag. In this instance his bag was open. It was a very expensive bag. I don t know how it opened, but I saw him looking at it and he kept on walking. He looked at me again and kept on walking, but he did not tell me the bag was open. For the third time he looked in my direction again and I then noticed he was not really looking at me, but at his bag. I then realised that there is something wrong here and I noticed the bag was open.He was now more concerned because I was carrying his bag than when he was carrying his own bag, yet all along I assumed I was helping him.That is what happens when you think you are serving a man and yet you are now an expense to him. A father can become worried because of an ignorant son who is not paying attention to detail. According to me, I wanted my father to bless me because I was carrying his bag.I am saying this because some of you are expecting to get a blessing when in actual fact you should be dismissed. You are not even supposed to be there. You make it hard for someone who is supposed to help you.