Sports Reporter JAIROS Jiri Kadoma emerged winners of this year s Danhiko Annual Paralympic Games when they amassed 181 points to finish on pole position as the Games came to an end yesterday. The three-day event began on Friday at Danhiko with more than 100 clubs, including a team from Zambia competing in different sport disciplines.In second place was Henry Murray, who came in as the defending champions with 152 points while M Hugo High managed 149 points to take third position.Jairos Jiri Kadoma had most of their points coming from goal ball and for their effort they pocketed US$400.Guest of honour at the closing ceremony, Sport and Recreation Minister Makhosini Hlongwane paid tribute to the First Lady, Dr Grace Mugabe, the patron of the Games for her continued support over the years. I am profoundly honoured and delighted to preside over the prize giving and closing ceremony of the Danhiko Annual Paralympic Games. Before going any further, I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the patron of the Games, Her Excellency Amai Dr Grace Mugabe for her immense and immeasurable contribution to the success of these Games that have become a reference point on our sporting calendar. As the Ministry of Sport and Recreation, we take pride in that these Games have now become a permanent feature of our sporting life. This demonstrates the seriousness with which all the stakeholders view these Games, said Hlongwane.Hlongwane added that the experiences from this year s event should come in handy in planning for the next edition. As we come to an end of these Games, let s not forget that the Games are a part of a sustained and comprehensive process and not stand-alone event. The event specific experiences that we have curled from this edition of the Games should inform our future planning trajectory to ensure that these Games are asserted with excellence, Hlongwane said.Jairo Jiri Kadoma took the lead on Saturday with 90 points while Henry Murray had 72 points. M Hugo High were trailing with 57 points and the three teams maintained their positions at the end of the competition yesterday.Jairos Jiri Kadoma team manager, Tawanda Chipwanya was pleased with his team s success at the Games. We found the competition interesting and I dedicate everything to the people I was working with in preparing for the Games. I think we have done a very good thing to the Jairos Jiri association as a whole. We have done something good and we will continue working hard although we have some financial challenges we face. We had to make some sacrifices to come here and we did our best. We have been working hard and we thank the athletes for their commitment and determination, said Chipwanya.Henry Murray and M Hugo High, both from Masvingo, walked away with $250 and $150 for coming second and third respectively.