Brighton Zhawi: Sports ReporterThe 2016 /17 domestic cricket season will run for nine months as Zimbabwe Cricket has responded to loud calls to strengthen the domestic structure. After periods of uncertainty, the domestic season was finally confirmed to start next month following the ZC board meeting this week.A number of improvements have been made to the season that will be played from November to August next year after running for only four months last season. Action begins with the resumption of the Zimbabwe Premier League on November 13th followed by the Logan Cup on November 25, the 50-over List A competition and two Twenty-20 competitions.This will see, for the first time, provincial teams playing winter cricket as the 50-over List A competition will run for 12 weeks from May 9 to July 29. The national U-19 team has also been added to the 50-over cricket competition as part of their ICC Cricket World Cup preparations.Zimbabwe Cricket Development manager Givemore Makoni said it was imperative for players to get more game time on the domestic front. We had to make sure a lot of cricket is being played because as a country we were playing the least number of domestic games compared to other cricket nations, he said. It is something the ZC Chairman and the board has been pushing for and I am glad it s now happening, Makoni said.In the previous season only six games were played in the Logan Cup and also the Pro 50 Championship. This time we have 12 weeks of the Logan Cup, 12 of the List A games, 18 weeks of the ZPL and two Twenty 20 competitions, Makoni said.He also confirmed that contracts were in place and encouraged players to earn their contracts. That issue has been solved and obviously we just don t give a contract, but one has to earn it, you should work for your contract. There will be 12, nine and six months contracts which will be reviewed as the season progress, he said.Mashonaland Eagles, the holders of all the three domestic competitions trophies, will begin their Logan Cup defence with a home fixture against Matabeleland Tuskers at Old Hararians on November 22. On the same day, trophy-less MidWest Rhinos will host the Mountaineers at Kwekwe Sports Club.