Naledi Sande Cool Lifestyle ReporterCool lifestyle had the chance to witness Hatfield Girls High speech and prize-giving day on Thursday which took place in their school hall. The awards were given according to academic excellence, smartness, sports, arts, best behaviour and entrepreneurship. The event saw more than 100 excelling students being awarded vouchers such as text books and exercise books and those who were awarded based on behaviour and smartness walked away with extras of T-shirts and toiletry hampers. Several performances were given by the school girls in partnership with their sister schools, Cranborne Boys high and Morgan high.The ceremony opened with a smartly-dressed dressed accapella group in their school uniform who led in singing the national anthem and presented the school s welcome song. It was followed by an act by the school s marimba band and IYASA dance group and a number of poems and speeches. Form Two pupil Kufara Danda who was awarded with seven prizes for being the best in all seven subjects was very happy with the achievements. I am very proud of myself. It shows that hard work pays and I am pleased to make my family proud of me as well, she said joyfully.Headgirl, Michelle Karoro and vice-headgirl Sabina Zhakata also won prizes leading by example. To add on to the leaders leading by example list, Harare Junior City Councillor Valerie Chaniwa was awarded with two prizes. It is a good thing that I got to prove to others that you can do it all and do it well. My secret is being principled and focused, Valerie said.Speaking at ceremony, district schools inspector for Mbare-Hatfield district, Absolome Chinoona applauded the job done by the school head Ms Tsungai Makura ever since her appointment.He said, A big bus was purchased; poultry project was introduced in the school thus promoting the new curriculum; educational trips are being organised and our pupils are exposed to educational environments. Sporting is also excelling with some of our students participating at national level. He highlighted how stakeholder involvement is pivotal for the successful implementation of the new curriculum. It is a fact that parents have the mandate to educate their children and vice-versa expect them to be self-reliant. The skills which will be taught at this school will enable our students to be entrepreneurs and this can only be achieved through the implementation of the new curriculum with the assistance of our parents, stakeholders and corporate world, he added.The DSI also encouraged the students who did not win anything to work harder. Ralph Marison in one of his scripts commented, Do not lower your expectations to meet your performance. Raise your level of performance to meet your expectations . Chinoona said.The school head Ms Makura said they are proud of what they have achieved. As we speak, our soft ball team is the current Harare Champion, our hockey team played and won in SA, our Rugby team is in the first division and fielded Anna Siwedu and our A-Level pass rate is good, she said.The event was graced by ministry officials, heads of schools and corporate world members.