MANCHESTER. Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho admits he no longer views Stamford Bridge as a lucky ground after his struggles there in his final season at Chelsea. Mourinho went unbeaten at Stamford Bridge in the league during a sensational first spell at Chelsea from 2004 to 2007 which yielded two English Premier League soccer titles, an FA Cup and two league cups.It was not until Mourinho s 78th league game, during the first season of his second spell with the club, that the Special One was finally beaten by lowly Sunderland.During his final as Chelsea boss, Mourinho s supremacy at Stamford Bridge deserted him. Crystal Palace won in west London last August and the Blues were blown away by Southampton just four days later.They suffered a third home Premier League defeat to Jurgen Klopp s Liverpool at the end of October.When newly-promoted Bournemouth won at the Bridge on December 5, it proved a critical blow for Mourinho who was sacked just one game later.On the previous occasion Mourinho returned to the ground as a visiting he manager, with Inter Milan in 2010, he declared Mourinho is lucky at Stamford Bridge .He was successful in dumping Chelsea out of the Champions League as Samuel Eto o secured a 1-0 victory but he is far less bullish ahead of tomorrow s trip with Manchester United.Mourinho said: When I played there with Inter, before that, I never lost a match at Stamford Bridge because I had that home record. Now I have lost a few matches at the Bridge. Last season I lost two or three matches at the Bridge, so I cannot use the same words because now I have lost there. I knew that, working in England and staying in the Premier League, I knew that sooner or later, I had to play against Chelsea and go to Stamford Bridge. The computer has decided it is (time) to go now. And here we go. Chelsea, who are fifth in the table, sit two places and two points above United heading into the game but Mourinho says he has not been paying special attention to how his old side have developed under Antonio Conte.Mourinho said: I don t have to analyse their start to the season. But you look to the table and you see where they are. They are in a good position. So the start of the season cannot be bad if they are where they are. Meanwhile, Mourinho should be given a warm welcome when the Manchester United manager returns to Chelsea, tomorrow said present Blues incumbent Antonio Conte.Conte, who took over in July after Guus Hiddink had stepped in when Mourinho was fired last term, added that the Portuguese coach who guided Chelsea to three league titles merited his place in the club s folklore. I have great respect for him, said Conte. He won three championships and I think he was an important man for the club. I think he deserves a good reception, because he wrote with the club, with his players, with the staff part of the story of this club. When you win three championships, you remain in the heart of the fans. It s normal. After the whistle, he becomes like the other players of Manchester United an enemy, in the sporting aspect. Conte, who guided Italy to the last eight of Euro 2016 losing to Germany in a penalty shootout, will face Mourinho with Chelsea two points better off than United in fifth spot.Table-topping Manchester City only have a three point advantage over Chelsea whilst United who were soundly whipped by their city rivals in the derby earlier this season trail by five.Conte, who established himself among the top tier of club coaches at Juventus a side he also played with distinction for, rubbished claims United would be at a disadvantage because they have played twice this week a 0-0 draw with Liverpool and then an easy 4-1 victory over Fenerbahce in the Europa League. I don t want this type of advantage, said the 47-year-old Italian. This means you don t play in Champions League or Europa League. I think Chelsea must play during the week, this type of tournament. Conte who last week laughed off rumours about him being on the verge of the sack after his odds tumbled at the bookmakers will continue to deploy three central defenders which he installed two matches ago after some weak defensive displays saw them leak goals. Those two games have seen Chelsea not concede a goal. I m pleased, because after many games that we conceded two and sometimes three goals and I repeat this is not right, this is not a good way for Chelsea to concede so many goals &#8212; we change it, we change the system of play, said Conte. We know we must continue to work and progress in this way. I m pleased because in this week I m seeing the right commitment, the right work rate for the players. I see players that trust in this system, in this type of work. Sky Sports.