Robson Sharuko: Senior Sports Editor FOR Zimbabwe s Golden Generation of footballers, the resumption of battles for a place at the 2018 World Cup finals which enter the home stretch this weekend brings back a flood of bitter memories of a golden opportunity they missed as they continue to pay a huge price for the sins of their leaders. Twenty remaining African nations, including our biggest rivals Zambia and South Africa, will plunge into action this weekend in the final surge of battles for the five spots reserved for the continent at the 2018 World Cup finals in Russia.The Warriors were barred from playing in the qualifiers as punishment for ZIFA s failure to pay former coach Valinhos, despite repeated warnings from FIFA, the estimated $60 000 he was owed for taking charge of the national team during the doomed 2010 World Cup/Nations Cup qualifiers.Zimbabwe were also on the brink of being barred from the 2022 World Cup qualifiers after ZIFA failed to pay Belgian coach Tom Saintfiet the $180 000 he demanded for coaching the Warriors for only a day, before his deportation by immigration authorities after he worked here without a work permit.However, ZIFA benefactor Wicknell Chivayo settled the Saintfiet debt in January this year and Zimbabwe will be part of the 2022 World Cup show, which is likely to be the last 32-team World Cup showcase, with FIFA president Gianni Infantino revealing this week he will push for a 48-team World Cup from 2026.Warriors skipper Willard Katsande, who led his troops to the 2017 Nations Cup finals, believes he missed a golden chance to end his international career in style by taking his country to the 2018 World Cup finals as leader of a vastly-talented group of individuals. For me it is over. The next qualifiers for the 2022 World Cup may start around 2019 and by that time I would be 33 years and my legs would be gone. There would be new blood in the team, Katsande told The Herald. I believe at the moment we have good players and all the players in the team are in form at their clubs, but due to circumstances beyond us, we cannot compete in the World Cup qualifiers. I just wish the current Under-23 (team) will take on the baton and maybe qualify (for the 2022 World Cup finals). My (Kaizer Chiefs) teammates, Shabba (Siphiwe Tshabalala, Khune (Itumelang) always tell me how good it is to play at the World Cup and say it is a feeling which you can t describe and I would also have wanted to experience that. But that can only be done if you participate in the qualifiers and then, maybe, qualify. The Golden Generation is led in attack by the duo of Knowledge Musona, who has enjoyed a flying start to the season at his Belgian side KV Oostende, scoring five goals in nine matches and sitting in second place in the Golden Boot race and Khama Billiat, who has helped power Mamelodi Sundowns to their first CAF Champions League final appearance in 15 years.Musona and Billiat scored three goals apiece as they inspired the Warriors to a successful 2017 Nations Cup qualifying campaign. Towering centreback Costa Nhamoinesu has provided the muscle needed in defence using the experience he has gained playing in the UEFA inter-club competitions for his Czech side Sparta Prague while Katsande has been the leader in midfield. It s sad that our talented generation of footballers won t be among the 20 African nations fighting for the five places at the 2018 World Cup finals in Russia because when you look at the quality of the players at our disposal you get the feeling that we could have competed favourably for a place at the World Cup, Spencer Manguwa, a member of the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association leadership, said. And if you consider that we were good enough to make it among the 16 teams that will play in Gabon, you can argue that our boys would have made it among the last 20 nations who will be in action this weekend with a very good chance of qualifying for the first time in our history to the World Cup. The World Cup qualifiers this weekend come days after former Zimbabwe goalkeeper Bruce Grobbelaar recalled the infamous 1994 World Cup qualifier between the Warriors and the Pharaohs of Egypt in Cairo in 1993, whose result was nullified by FIFA after the keeper, coach Reinhard Fabisch and Henry McKop were hit by missiles thrown from the stands.The Egyptians won that match 2-1, but FIFA nullified the result and ordered a replay in Lyon, which ended goalless, with Zimbabwe qualifying for the final nine-team elimination phase for a place at the 1994 World Cup finals in the United States.Last Saturday, the world football governing body also recalled the first time this country s footballers played in a World Cup qualifier against Australia in 1969 in Mozambique, which had to be decided after three matches with the first two having ended in draws.Bobby Chalmers, who played in that match, was one of the two players interviewed by FIFA.com. The Australians were so sure of winning, they completely underestimated us. In fact, they had already booked their flights to Israel, remembered Chalmers.In the first qualifier, Chalmers gave his team the shock lead which was cancelled by Australia s Tommy McColl. (The draw) was a shock for them and they were rather arrogant afterwards, saying they would beat us 6-0 in the second leg. The second match ended goalless, forcing a third elimination match which the Aussies finally won 3-1 with Chalmers again on target.Chalmers, who played professional football in South Africa and scored twice for his club in a friendly international against probably the finest Real Madrid side of all-time, which included the likes of Puskas, Gento and Santamaria, told FIFA that the World Cup experience remained the highlight of his career. It was a wonderful experience, although it ended in disappointment. Four years later, many of the same players that played against us, qualified for the World Cup finals in Germany. And of course we were thinking it could have been us four years earlier. 