Minister MushohweNyemudzai Kakore Herald Correspondent Government is in the process of amending the Mines and Minerals Act to align it with current and future national objectives, Mines and Mining Development Minister Walter Chidhakwa said. In a speech read on his behalf by Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister Dr Christopher Mushohwe at the third mining media awards in the capital on Thursday, Minister Chidhakwa said from the consultations carried out, issues of corporate social responsibility, local procurement, conflicts between mining and farming and environmental concerns required urgent attention.As such, he said it was evident that the mining sector had potential to transform mining communities, facilitating sustainable development to the benefit of citizens. Zimbabwe is endowed with a huge highly diversified mineral resource base with over 40 economic minerals having been commercially mined. Despite the broad variety of minerals, currently the country relies largely on five minerals, which account for more than 90 percent revenue. This high concentration risk certainly needs to be corrected, he said. The mining sector is an important economic mainstay in Zimbabwe. Recently, the sector emerged to become the key driver of the country s economic turnaround, hence generating a lot of interest from many stakeholders. Many a times, when challenged on objectivity of particular information disseminated, the media have expressed concerns over lack of access to the information from relevant stakeholders, the mining sector amongst them. The theme of the mining awards was Propelling Mining Sector Growth Through Shared Understanding .Minister Chidhakwa called on the mining sector to avail relevant information to the media, which would facilitate shared understanding and objective reporting cognisant of the fact that some information was confidential.He said it was apparent that Government, the mining sector, communities and the media fraternity needed each other to foster sustainable relationships and channel the efforts towards national development. I implore on the mining sector to strive to assist the media to tell their story, a development focused story in order to effect positive impacts on the lives of Zimbabweans who so dearly expect optimum benefits from their mineral endowment. It is time mining companies capacitate the media to be better placed in articulating your concerns. I am sure strategies such as offering scholarships or tailor made training courses to media practitioners to understand the sector and aspects of the mining value chain are worth pursuing. The six mining media awards winners were Manica Post news editor Cletus Mushanawani who won the diamond sector best reporter with Sport FM Theophilus Chuma winning the electronic media award.Financial gazette Andrew Kunambura, Phillimon Mhlanga, Shame Makoshori, won in the categories of Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability, Platinum sector and Gold sector respectively.Freelance journalist Tawanda Karombo was the best reporter for the mining sector and economy while his counterpart Lovemore Zigara won the Small Scale and Artisanal Mining award.