 Trolls premieres at Ster Kinekor Sam Levy tonightTafadzwa Zimoyo Cool Reloaded &#8212; Two days are not enough for a weekend and its only 10 weeks before Christmas holiday. Yipee!!! How are the exams so far. Well, preparations for leaver s parties or prom nights are at advanced stages at different schools. We have already received some invitations. Anyway congrats to our girl Tinashe for new video which features Davido titled How Long .Umm the two got a bit cosy, is he our new in-law? LOL Thank you all who made it last night for the premiere of Jack Reacher 2 which stars Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher, Cobie Smulders as Susan Turner, Aldis Hodge (Espin), Patrick Heusinger as the hunter and Danika Yarosh as Samantha Dayton.Meanwhile, today all roads lead to Sam Levy Ster Kinekor theatres for the premiere of Trolls . It is an eye-popping, candy-coloured, MSG-fuelled new animation from Dreamworks. If you could take Shrek , Happy Feet and Smurfs movies, toss them in a blender and hit the pulse button a few times, the result would be a pretty reasonable approximation of Trolls , an admittedly vibrant-looking but awfully recognisable animated musical comedy concoction.The good thing is parents need to know that Trolls is a cute, colourful adventure inspired by the tall-haired troll dolls that first became popular in the 1960s. It centres on peppy troll Princess Poppy (voiced by Anna Kendrick), who teams up with grumpy pessimist Branch (Justin Timberlake) to rescue her friends from the troll-hungry Bergens.Along the way everyone learns lessons about inner happiness, never giving up, and being proud of who you are. Everything has a fuzzy, felted look to it, which softens some of the danger. But little kids are still likely to be scared by the greedy, hungry Bergens. And they may well hide their eyes when Poppy and her friends flee from danger and have several narrow escapes.There s also a sad moment when Branch remembers losing someone he loved. Two of the Bergens flirt, striking some sexy poses and exchanging a couple of mild innuendoes. Expect a few uses of OMG/oh my gah (the ending of the word is left undefined) and stupid /other insults. But in the end, what you ll remember are the great songs, the strong themes of friendship and empathy, and the fun characters.See you there as we will be there when it happens. Lucky teens will get a chance to get a selfie with Yours Truly , and will be published next week. Still on showbizz, tonight the verdict is concluded as who will take the most gongs and who will walk away with Song of The Year Award at the MTV Africa Music Awards in Johannesburg. We are keeping our fingers cross on Jah Prayzah nomination for the Viewers Choice category. We hope you have voted too.