Arts ReporterFounder and leader for Kingdom Embassy prophet Passion Java and his wife Lily Tsegaye Java will launch 13 books tomorrow at Country Club, Borrowdale Brooke. Some of the book titles include, The Manifestation of Your Dream World , Angels Assignments , The Prophetic Secrets , The Power of Love , The Five-fold Ministry of God and My Lamborghini among others.The books were all inspired by societal settings and published in Jamaica and Zimbabwe.In an interview script and publishing consultant Thembalani Maposa said they chose to release all the books at one time ahead of the festive season. We are happy to be launching the books in time for festive season that is special worship time for Christians. We chose to release them at one time so that people will have a selection of what they want which suits them. They will be launched during his birthday celebrations and this is like a dedication to the people, he said.He said the books will be on Amazon and in book stores. We are going to have an auction of the books and we use the opportunity to market the books too as we will announce which stores will sale the books. Some are already on Amazon, he said.Commenting on the books he said they are centred on Christian development and the community. My Lamborghini book is about the attitude Christians should have on riches and wealth. It explores misconceptions Christians have on being rich and having a good life on this earth, how many Christians consider riches to be evil and how they have misquoted the verse that says, the love of money is the root of all evil to mean Money is the root of all evil , he said.Maposa said the books serve as a yard stick or bench mark on certain situations affecting them. Angels Assignment is about the work of angles, what they are, what they really do and how they operate. Many people have heard so many stories about angels and there are so many misconceptions and myths about angels. This book simplifies and demystified some of those misconceptions in a language any ordinary person can understand and relate with, he said.