Minister KasukuwereInnocent Ruwende in Victoria FallsGovernment has urged local authorities to engage investment bankers and position themselves to attract funding as well as efficiently provide basic services to residents. Speaking at the Local Government Investment Conference underway here, Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Saviour Kasukuwere said local authorities should develop plans and create an attractive environment which will enable funders to partner them. We should stimulate activity in housing delivery, city transport reorganisation and to reach out to world trends. If it is working in other world cities, it should work in Zimbabwe. Urban transport is another key deliverable for our urban settlements. The influx of imported second hand vehicles has seen an unprecedented increase in the volume of traffic on our roads resulting in more carnages and traffic jams. This exacerbated by the state of our road network as well as non-replacement of obsolete street lighting, he said.He said the sector requires game changing strategies including the tolling of urbanites so as to improve the intra-city road networks.He said potholes and mini Karibas should be repaired.Minister Kasukuwere said despite the challenges local authorities should remain resolute and determined to reach greater heights in providing services to the generality of their residents and ratepayers. I am aware that local authorities are faced with myriad of challenges, some of which appear to be insurmountable. The challenges include financial and capital resources constraints and have been a huge barrier to the achievement of service delivery performance excellence desired by you, local authorities. I am sure this observation underpins the reason for holding this important conference and in our deliberations, it is now the opportune time for the hiring of capable human resources to steer our councils on the path towards growth and development, he said.Deputy chief secretary in the Office of President and Cabinet, Dr Ray Ndlukula said local authorities were now known for being havens for poor service delivery manifesting in sewerage and water reticulation problems, antiquated city by-laws, poor corporate governance and weak accountability systems thereby promoting corruption and resource leakages. As a result of poor service delivery, most residents no longer pay their bills on time, thereby affecting the revenue generation of urban councils. This then presents cash flow challenges for urban local authorities, especially at a time the country is experiencing limited fiscal space with fall-back positions no longer there as financial institutions also do not have capacity to offer working capital loans. In the case of urban local authorities the rapid results approach is being recommended for adoption as a key to address the myriad challenges, he said.Minister of State for Matabeleland North Province Cain Mathema said there was need for co-ordination between key Government ministries and local authorities to unlock opportunities and better service delivery.