Q on stageTafadzwa Zimoyo Arts ReporterPopular comedian Q, real name Nqobizitha Dube, has left the country for his UK tour scheduled to begin tomorrow.Q will stage shows tomorrow, on Sunday and next weekend at Mama Jumbes restaurant. He will be performing alongside UK-based comedians Xavier O Fishal and Munashe.This weekend s show will also see guest performance by South African comic diva Linhle Msimang.Msimang has shared stages with international acts such as Mark Curry of Hanging with Mr Cooper , Mark Eddie, Mike Loftus George Lopez Show and Pablo Fransisco.She has performed in shows such as the Nandos Comedy Festival (Johannesburg and Cape Town), Soweto Comedy Festival, Opening Guys Live Show , and The Triple O Comedy Jam , 99 Percent Zulu Comedy and Johannesburg International Comedy Festival.In an interview with The Herald before he left, Q said he will be in UK for two weeks and do his best. I love comedy. I will be in UK for a little over two weeks performing. I plan to go to a lot of open mic places. It is my dream come true to share stages with some of the great personalities in the industry. I have had an opportunity to travel to many counties to host comedy nights, he said.Q said comedy is a niche market and always attracts a selected number of people. It would be unfair to really say we face career-threatening challenges because for us to have people come out and pay to see us is a great achievement. We truly respect and support the sector, he said.He said he is inspired by some international comedians who have made names in the industry. My roles models include my mother who worked at ZBC, reading main news and weather report. She acted too in many films. I adore Trevor Noah for what he has done for African comedy, Alfred Kainga for showing that it can be done if you are serious, D.L Hughely for his approach to comedy in terms of writing style and joke ratio. He is very under-rated but great mind. I also appreciate Bernie Mac is my GOAT, he said.Apart from comedy, the artiste has also written two books on relationships and motivational inspiration. My dream is to be a flourishing global artiste on stage and literature and to have many videos going viral, he added.