Innocent Ruwende recently in CHIVI, MasvingoChivi Rural District Council chairman and Zanu-PF Masvingo provincial secretary for finance Cde Killer Zivhu says he is ready to lead the province if he is given the nod to contest for the vacant post of provincial chairman.Former Zanu-PF Zaka district chair Cde Amasa Nhenjana is the acting chair of the province after the provincial executive passed a vote of no confidence against provincial chairperson Cde Paradzai Chakona. The province accused Cde Chakona of abusing party property and fanning factionalism.Speaking at an event to honour Chivi schools which excelled in various sporting disciplines at Zivhu Village in Chivi, Cde Zivhu said he would unite the province if given the chance. Baba Hungwe (Minister of State for Liaising on Psychomotor Activities in Education) I am ready to lead the party in the province. If the party feels my time has not come I am okay with it, he said.Cde Hungwe backed Cde Zivhu whom he described as a practical man. Killer (Cde Zivhu) is a doer he is not a person who just talks to please people. I have not seen another person in this district who puts so much effort and investment to make sure this area is developed. He is a selfless individual who puts the interests of people in this district and the whole nation first. I have heard there are some people who are trying to block some of his philanthropic activities I say to you leave Zivhu alone and allow him to help, he said.Minister Hungwe urged pupils to take sports seriously saying it could earn them a decent living giving an example of Neymar da Silva Santos Junior popularly known as Neymar, a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a forward for Spanish club FC Barcelona and the Brazil national team whom he said was earning in excess of $8 million a year.Cde Zivhu donated 20 computers to four schools which excelled in various sporting disciplines as well as food hampers donated by the First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe. We thank the First Lady for giving us food hampers and uniforms among other things. Each child will get a food hamper. Next year Chivi is hosting athletics we will do our best to make sure they will be a success. We shall continue to invest in you, said Cde Zivhu.He urged people in the drought- prone area to grow drought-resistant crops such as water melons which they would sell to buy maize. Danamombe High School are the national handball champions, but failed to defend the Presidential Trophy because of lack of funds to participate while Paradza High School won the Sadc netball gong.Chidyamakono High School Under- 17 women soccer team are the national champions and have won several medals in the region for their exploits while Chibi High is also excelling in various sporting disciplines despite having meagre resources. Cde Zivhu, who is constructing a classroom block at Dzingirayi School, said Zanu-PF Secretary for Administration Cde Ignatius Chombo had pledged to roof any new school block built in the district.