Kudzi Mr Cool MarudzaGodwin Muzari Memory LaneKudzi Marudza gets emotional when he talks about radio. Popularly known as Mr Cool, the veteran disc jockey wonders if radio will ever be the same again. Although he salutes many young talented presenters, Mr Cool s general feeling is that yesteryear talent is irreplaceable. Radio Awards are around the corner and most presenters on local stations have been nominated. They will be rewarded for their outstanding works, but Mr Cool has a few words for the entire radio community.The late Josh MakawaThe talented presenter says passion that used to drive radio has thinned over the years.For a man who swapped shifts with the likes of Josh Makawa, John Matinde, Felix Nganjo, Tsitsi Mawarire, Simon Parkinson, Joe Hussein, Peter Johns and Kelvin Sefelani, Mr Cool should be strongly feeling the difference in radio generations.Others that shared the studio microphone with him include Bridget Gavanga, Daves Mugadza, Innocent Manase, Admire Taderera, Innocent Manase, James Maridadi and Kelvin Ncube.As he went down memory lane at his house in Arcadia yesterday, Mr Cool produced a 1999 duty roster to show some of the talented names that made the then Radio 3 team to prove his point.He enjoys listening to some of the youngsters currently rocking the airwaves, yet he always feels there is a yawning gap.Admire Taderera I am not saying I am the best, but I realize things have changed over the years and some of the presenters apparently do not have the passion that drove yesteryear DJs. Most of these young people are just going on radio to fulfil employment obligations. They do not exude the zeal that pushed us back then. I think passion is the best attribute for a radio presenter. It has to come from the heart, he said.Mr Cool remembers how it took him four years to get a permanent shift on air despite showing talent that had earned him a task as standby presenter a few months after his first attempt on the mic.Davis Mugadza I joined ZBC as a library staffer and I showed my passion for being a presenter soon after my arrival. When I saw people like Makawa and Matinde doing their thing, I got more inspiration and would practice in what we called Studio D in my spare time. An experienced presenter would teach me the tricks and I was doing well. I began working for the broadcaster on September 1, 1981 and on June 5, 1982 I had my first radio presentation. Despite my passion and the grooming that I was getting, it took me four more years to get a permanent shift. Everyone said I was good and I was actually appointed standby presenter and I would replace anyone that failed to fulfil their shift. I handled most shifts in that capacity, only to get my own slot in 1986. That was radio then. A presenter had to be perfect and it took passion to go through the process without getting discouraged. I do not think most current presenters can stand that heat. Everyone had a mentor and there was need to convince bosses that you are ripe for prime-time shifts. It was a serious test that many did not pass. Today some presenters are just taken for prime-time slots because they have good voices. This radio business goes beyond good voices. He said some presenters now just go on air to play music without doing enough research. When he did the most popular programme of his career Afro-pop Sounds , Mr Cool always shared important information about African musicians. We all know that the media have to inform, entertain and educate but today s DJs seem to be obsessed with the entertainment aspect. Before going on radio, we used to ask ourselves what will people benefit from my shift besides music and my voice? That question would inspire you to research on topical issues and tell listeners new interesting things. Good music, good information and education that was our way of presenting. Mr Cool said, despite the many years he has worked in broadcasting, he believes learning new things everyday improves a presenter. One thing I told myself since I got into broadcasting was that there is no end to learning. I learn every day and I do not consider myself an expert. I am still learning in order to keep abreast with technology and new trends. I always research although I am no longer that active on radio. The veteran presenter is having a part-time affair with Power FM where he handles one shift on Sunday night.Most of his time is spent concentrating on the business of Huggiez Entertainment, a company he runs with Witness Chuman Matema and Ronald D-Train Chiwanza.Witness Chuman MatemaHuggiez Entertainment has worked with several DJs at various spots in the country. They are famed for Old Skool sessions that have rotated in the capital city s popular outdoor joints. The company was a way of taking our selections to the people. It began when we were playing at a local spot and it has been around for the past 10 years. Back to radio, Mr Cool said he always emphasizes to young presenters that they should compile their playlists to the ear . It is a popular statement at Power FM. If you ask them about the issue of compiling to the ear , they know where it came from. I also tell the youngsters that they should not just play songs because a new album has been released. They should first listen to the albums and then choose songs that can add quality to their programmes. It is not sincere to say every song deserves airplay because a musician has invested to produce it. We need songs that deserve airplay on radio. You have listeners to please and musicians should compete to come up with songs that make it to that list. If we just play an album because it is new, we might end up promoting mediocrity.The late Andy Brown I had a serious argument with Taderera some years ago when they were using a system to pick songs from a certain list for programmes. I told him that some songs on the list did not deserve airplay. Most people were of the idea that we should give all songs equal chances, but I disagree. Airplay should define quality and musicians should strive for quality to get airplay. There was a time when Andy Brown gave me his album Sadza Nenyama and said I should push the title-track. I told him that there were better songs on the album and I would not play the title-track. I would play the good songs. Most people think it is unfair, but radio is about good music, not fair airplay. 