Realisation is the most important key which comes right at the beginning of everything. Before change can take place, somebody has to realise it. For you to have adjustments in your life, there has to be a realisation, a moment where you say I have realised the truth. There is a lady in the Bible who discovered that there was a coin missing and she started looking for the coin that was lost but that was as a result of realising that there was something that was now missing in her life.Unless you realise that something is missing the search will never begin. You have to realise that there is something that was given to you by God which you no longer have. So realisation becomes the most important thing. Even in your life if a thief breaks into your house and yet nothing is missing, it might take you time to realise that somebody was in there.Realisation is very important. It is the first key towards any success. Realise that this is not what God meant for you. Look into many facets, many aspects of your life where you might have believed a lie. Your life consists of many aspects. In every aspect you need to look at it again and then ask questions like, Am I correct? Is my understanding concerning this area correct? Did I not believe in a lie? Have a life of answering questions, allow questions to be coming into your life. Don t avoid questions, don t ignore questions, and don t get tired of answering questions. The moment you begin to answer questions you will realise that there is an ability inside you to solve problems. Many problems come in form of questions, solving a problem is answering a question. Before you start solving big problems start by answering small questions.Entertain questions, don t fight questions and don t ignore them because questions are very important. Allow people to ask you questions, allow your spouse and children to ask you questions, allow even yourself to ask questions and allow your life to ask you questions.In many cases you find your own personal life asking you a lot of questions. Your life can be asking you questions, answer those questions. Don t move on to the next thing unless every question in your life is answered. You are designed by God, not to be one of those questions but to be an answer provider. You are supposed to be providing answers to the questions that people have. By answering questions you will begin to realise the truth.Success doesn t just cover the financial side, it covers all the aspects of your life. You are designed by God to provide answers, not questions. If you want to make money in life start answering questions because every problem is a question. If you ignore questions and problems, money will ignore you. Realisation is so powerful. Our realisation plays a very important role.Even if Jesus is to delay coming for the next 10 000 years we are still never going to be able to realise or to exhaust even 5 percent of what He died for. The whole mission has been distorted and who did that? Mr Preacher. The God that you serve is the God that was introduced to you. The size of the God that you serve is determined by the size of the preacher.God has a certain ability that you might think it s a weakness. God has this ability to adjust Himself so that He can fit within the confines of the human mind. That is exactly what makes Him God. Some people say that you can t put God in a box, but you can. Inasmuch as God would have wanted to give Abraham every place but He said that as far as Abraham can see which means God can go as far as you allow Him to go.He is God, very powerful and much bigger than ourselves but somehow before God can move into action, our belief system is consulted. Before God can move on your behalf you have to make a contribution, your faith is required.The moment we begin to talk of faith, faith comes in different types and forms. The Bible addresses faith in these three areas, the presence of faith, the quantity of faith and the quality of faith. Do you have the faith? How much of it do you have? Is it powerful enough to produce the desires that you have?God is never going to operate independent from us. It s not a question of whether God wants you to be blessed or not, it s a question of whether you want the will of God to be realised. Even up to now the will of God has not been realised yet by some people. If a will is not written, anything can happen to the inheritance. The heir of the inheritance can lose it because a will should not be verbal, it has to be in writing. The Bible is the will. Everything that God wanted you to have was documented in the Bible.Every time when I see questions coming to me I ask the Holy Spirit to help me to answer because that is why He is with us every time. You have to know who the Holy Spirit is and what He is doing inside you. The Holy Spirit is the invisible Jesus, He is that part of Jesus that you can t see but He is there.If an organisation does not realise the power of God to bless, God is never going to bless that rule. In an organisation where money is not important, God will never bless that audience with money. You can give God limitations, He can come as a billionaire or a poor God to maintain the poverty of that ministry.Don t underestimate God s willingness to demonstrate His abilities through you. Some of you are the only God s voice that another person will hear. You are the only manifestation of God that another person will encounter.You are a God experience to somebody to a point where you know that when you talk there is that power of attorney given to you to act on His behalf. You speak on behalf of God. Some of you think that is being pompous or being proud but that is realisation of what you are carrying.God is omnipresent but what is surprising is that God is not healing the sick everywhere He is. He has to wait for a limited personality who can t be everywhere at the same time to come and heal the sick.You think that is the weakness of God but that is His strength, we are transmitters of God. We move God, we direct His power, we give His ability an assignment. Realise that God wants to use you. Which means if there is poverty in your generation, you have to become the instrument that God is going to use to break that yoke.