LONDON. Former Brazil captain Carlos Alberto has died, aged 72. Alberto was the skipper of Brazil s 1970 World Cup-winning soccer side and netted the iconic fourth goal in the final against Italy. He died in Rio de Janeiro following a heart attack, according to reports in the Brazilian media. The defender won 53 caps for his national team, scoring eight goals in the process as he established himself as a key player in what is considered one of the greatest international sides to ever play the game. An outstanding reader of the game, Alberto also possessed the outstanding ball control and dribbling ability that was a trademark of the great Brazilian side which he captained.He spent the majority of his club career at Santos, where he played alongside Pele, before moving on to Fluminese in 1974. He moved to their rivals Flamengo in 1977 and then went to NASL later that year, when he signed for the star-studded New York Cosmos.When he hung up his boots in 1982 he was considered one of the greatest Brazilians to ever play the game. Alberto then moved into management, where he took charge of a number of teams, including stints at Flamengo and Fluminese. His last post was as Azerbaijan manager in 2005. Two of Alberto s former sides, Santos and Flamengo, were quick to pay tribute to the defender on social media.His goal in the 4-1 victory over Italy in the final is regarded as one of the greatest in the history of the tournament. The build-up to Alberto s famous goal started just five yards from the left of the Brazil box. A total of eight Brazil players touched the ball, with Pele providing the pass for Alberto to charge forward and strike the ball into the back of the net.Alberto said: We only realised how beautiful the goal was after the game. The emotion, of course, when I scored that goal was incredible, but after the game, and still today, I realise how beautiful and how important that goal was because everybody is still talking about it. Nobody talks about Pele s goal, the first goal, the second goal. It is always about the fourth goal. I think it was the best goal ever scored in a World Cup. Alberto worked as a commentator for Sportv in Brazil and made his last appearance on television on Sunday. The Mirror.