. . . Moonrise College crowns its queenLovemore Meya Cool Lifestyle CorrespondentChitungwiza Junior Council held the preliminary stages of Miss Chitungwiza Junior at Moonrise College last week and Form 2 student Ruth Shadreck was crowned the queen after she outshined 11 other contestants. She will represent the school together with five other schoolmates at finals to be held on December 16 at Nyamutamba Hotel, where she will contest with girls from various schools in Chitungwiza. First princess was Shempy Magaya and the second princess position went to Rachel Dzakata. In an interview soon after being crowned the winner, Shadreck could not hide her joy. The competition was a bit difficult and I was frightened, doubting I would make it to the top five since the other contesters were fighting hard, said Shadreck. However, I gained confidence as the competition went on and soon after we walked the ramp in our traditional attires, I knew I would qualify for the top three. Commenting on the forthcoming much-hyped beauty pageant slated for December, Shadreck kept her cool promising to work hard so that she could also make it. Organisers of the event, Junior Council representative, Poisedon Tsautsau who is the junior town clerk said the pageant was aimed at selecting five models to be part of the grand finale. Miss Moonrise Junior is a show aimed at selecting the representatives from the school who are going to take part at the Miss Chitungwiza Junior finals set for December, said Tsautsau. We had 15 junior participants in the senior category for those in high school and we had 12 models today. For the juniors it was meant for a fundraising while for the seniors are going to proceed. Out of the 12 contesters we are going to take the top five and the purpose for this Miss Chitungwiza Junior is to raise funds for the Christmas carols of the Maunganidze Children s Home. Part of the proceeds will be channelled to sustaining the Chitungwiza Junior Council. He said youths in Chitungwiza were craving for entertainment and this led them to start conducting modelling in schools. Starting off the sunny day were junior models who showcased their cat-walk moves while the crowd kept on cheering to boost their morale.The event was spiced up with some youthful dancers who exhibited their dexterity in scintillating moves that kept the audience excited. Again, there was a clash of DJs that were outshining each other while during intervals the energetic youths took to the dance floor to show what they were made of, with a number of dance styles.Organisers of the event have so far conducted sessions for Miss Zengeza 3, Herentals College and next will be Mhuriimwe on October 14. The final pageant will have at least 35 contestants drawn from seven schools and they converge for a boot camp before the final day.