Most of this year has seen Lerato Molapo Lira to her multitude of fans, touring and promoting her major 2016 undertaking, the album, Born Free . The album broke Lira s five-year silence and is her sixth studio album. It is a self-declared sound track to a generation. I grew up in a world where I faced so many limitations. I realised defining freedom for myself and subsequently living it was what I needed to do. In exploring this, the concept of Born Free became clearer, she says, explaining the significance of the title. I want people to realise how powerful they are and that they can own their freedom. This album has become more than a body of musical work. It seeks to inspire and create change physically and most importantly, mentally. Born Free masterfully blends a new sound with the smooth urban direction, synonymous with the Lira brand. This is my best record yet and listeners should expect to hear the definitive growth and boldness it brings. This album marks a new direction for the 11-times South African Music Award (SAMA) winning Afro-soul vocalist and sets an exciting tone for greater things to come.Lira s music career spans 13 years and includes six studio albums, three live DVD s, an autobiography and a movie.She has established herself as the foremost female artiste in South Africa and a formidable presence on the global music scene. Born Free is seen as an inspiringly lovely and celebratory piece of art. It is available worldwide on iTunes.Her music is considered a fusion of soul, funk with elements of Jazz and African influences.Describing her previous performances in Zimbabwe as, Fun! Fun! Fun! Lira explains: I think I have a very special message to share with this new album, gently exploring the idea of Freedom and spreading the positivity, but above all, hoping to give memorable performances. It is a very important album because I released it through my own label and it is available worldwide through iTunes and Apple Music. I think a lot of the songs are inspirational. Depending on what she is going through at varying times, she has some favourite tracks from the album but Brave Heart appears to feature prominently. Brave Heart is an epic song about bravery and it is a lovely, inspiring and celebratory piece of art. It makes you want to dance, she declares.With all this taking place Lira believes her focus should be on developing her career internationally.And she hopes to achieve this by ensuring her music is available to the world, and by following up with tours. I am also in the process of editing the second series of my documentary titled Dream Chaser , which followed my US album promotional tour and covers the Born Free album. The documentary was licensed to Fox International and broadcast in 40 African countries. I also had an exciting European tour, working with a Swedish band, Funk Unit. Lira ranks among the major highlights of her career so far performing before South Africa s first democratic president, Nelson Mandela, as well as for US president Barack Obama.But she has also been able to score a major feat by gracing the covers of 20 international magazines in a single year.So what is it that she has been able to do with her fame, her brand? I use every opportunity to shine a light of hope. I think one s life is their greatest opportunity to inspire. Beyond that, I sponsor both female and male students through education because I believe it is the most effective and transformational process and solution to poverty. I make motivational presentations and share what I know about creating real and true, lasting personal transformation. Lira also believes that in order to remain relevant and focused, it is important to have a vision. It gives you a focal point to all that you do. It becomes a kind of navigation system for your career. You need to get informed and educated knowledge is power! Be willing to do the work to advance your own career, roll up your sleeves and do it! And do it until you succeed! She tries to lead an exemplary life, adding: I share everything I know because I have tried and tested it. The principles I share have been gathered over years of experience and consistency. My truth is embedded in my music and in all that I do I am an open book. There is, however, something she relishes about performing in the Southern African region in general and in Zimbabwe in particular. I have longed to return to Zimbabwe for performances because I come across so many Zimbabweans here, in South Africa, that I feel the connection to the people. I love their warmth and the excellence in all they do. I can t wait to share my new and old music with them, as I have also been perfecting my stage act as a performer. For me, it is about creating a new experience as if you will be seeing a Lira show for the first time. The unique experience that I have of Zimbabwean fans is that of people showering the stage with money for me and the band. That has never happened anywhere. Only in Zimbabwe and that is a pretty phenomenal experience. Born in Ekurhuleni, East of Johannesburg, Lira grew up listening to Stevie Wonder, Miriam Makeba, Aretha Franklin and Nina Simone.She began writing songs and performing at the age of 16 before she was discovered in 2000 and signed to 999 where she released her debut album All My Love in 2003. The title track off the Album would go on to surpass Beyonce s Dangerously in love on its run to the top of the South African Charts, marking the beginning of her meteoric rise.Lira then signed to Sony Music in 2006 and released three albums, Feel Good , Soul in Mind and Return to Love all of which certified platinum and subsequently won her numerous accolades and multiple South African Music Awards (SAMAs).In 2010 Lira joined international artistes in performing at the FIFA World Cup Kick-Off Concert. That same year saw the release of her first live DVD, Live In Concert: A Celebration . The DVD was certified four-time platinum and replaced Celine Dion s Live in Las Vegas as number one on the DVD sales charts.Lira went on to make her cinematic debut that year as the support lead in the Italian/South African co-produced feature film, The Italian Consul .The year 2011 saw Lira spreading her wings and touring markets such as Europe and the US. She was subsequently named one of the Five Unique Artistes to Change Music in 2012 by Essence Magazine. LIRA: The Captured Tour Concert Film , her second live DVD, was released through her production company ARIL Films in 2012. The Captured Tour Concert Film broke new ground in technical excellence and became the first concert film of its kind to be made in Africa.In further pursuance of growing her international brand, Lira released Rise Again in 2014 through independent US record label, Shanachie. This was the perfect introduction to the full spectrum of Lira s artistry for American audiences. The launch of the album saw Lira tour 12 American states over a period of two months.This year, 2016, has been a busy year for Lira, who is a coach and mentor on South Africa s version of the international hit music reality TV show, The Voice . The South African superstar s very own seven-part documentary series, titled LIRA, Dream Chaser which details the release and tour of her Rise Again album in North America, has been licensed to Fox Global and began its first run across the entire African continent, via the DSTV platform in March.Bobbi Brown, the global cosmetic giant, recently announced Lira as their first South African influencer, making her the first African to formally collaborate with the cosmetic house in a campaign titled Bobbi x LIRA Panorama Magazine.