Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports ReporterTHE script for this year s Castle Lager Premiership took an interesting twist at the weekend after giants CAPS United went on top with the clubs involved in a three-horse race declaring there is no room for mistakes in the remainder of the season. The Green Machine took control of the race following a crucial win at Border Strikers as pacesetters FC Platinum lost 2-1 to Harare City on Saturday.Highlanders also moved within striking range with a win at Chapungu.CAPS coach Lloyd Chitembwe told Sportszone that a strong mentality among his players has been key to their charge. There are still 12 points to play for in the remaining matches, so it s still game on. FC Platinum and Highlanders are still within a chance to win the league so we are not getting carried away. We just need to take each game as it comes. The players want to win this league for themselves and for the team. They have shown so much character, managing to soak the pressure that comes with this stage of the campaign. We are not necessarily looking at pressure or what s happening outside, but what is within us. This is the kind of pressure which motivates us, said Chitembwe.Despite a good run in the last two months, which saw them stitch together six wins in succession, Highlanders coach Erol Akbay is still concerned about what lies ahead.Akbay is confident they will maintain their form, but believes their game against FC Platinum in the penultimate round of this campaign could play a big part in deciding the destiny of the title. We did a very good job at Chapungu. It was a good day for us. We look forward to continue with that winning form and continue hoping that CAPS United and FC Platinum drop the points along the way. It s difficult to tell how things end up like. We will have to see what happens in the last four games. On our part we cannot afford to make any mistake, but CAPS United can because they are three points better than us. It s going to be tough. Every game that will be played in the remainder of the season. There are those fighting for the title and those who want to finish on good positions. Every game will be like a cup final, especially the match against FC Platinum, said Akbay.FC Platinum, who controlled the pace for long, appear to be wilting under pressure. This is football, we need to move on. We still have four more games to play. We just need to keep working hard, have faith and leave everything in God s hands, said coach Lloyd Mapeza. Like I have always said that in life you never know what is going to happen. You can plan for tomorrow, but you never know what is going to happen, that s why we leave everything in God s hands and see what happens. FC Platinum s last four matches will be against Ngezi Platinum (home), Chapungu (away), Highlanders (home) and Tsholotsho (away).Defending champions Chicken Inn could be losing patience with their coach Rahman Gumbo after the side succumbed to newboys Bulawayo City and dropped to eighth on the log standings.The club s secretary-general Tavengwa Hara told The Herald yesterday that they were disappointed they could not give a good fight in defence of the title they won for the first time last year with Joey Antipas. The target this year was to retain the title, but we have failed. We only have four games to go in the season and there is nothing much we can talk about. We were never consistent this year and we are still wondering what could have hit us as a team so that we could not compete for the championship. Maybe our boys had focused too much on the Champions League in the pre-season and by the time they started preparing for the domestic league they had a short period to do that. Now we have to start looking at next season. Of course there will be changes here, said Hara.