US dollarsTendai Rupapa and Margaret MatibiriA PenHalonga widow is claiming $500 000 from Metallon Corporation owned Redwing Mine after a mine security guard shot and killed her husband on August 26 this year, leaving the family without a bread winner. Violet Munorwei s husband, Tafadzwa Lewani (23), was an artisanal miner. He was shot while in the company of his friends. It is alleged that he was first shot on the leg before a second bullet was fired into his abdomen.Tafadzwa s friend, David Madzikatire (24), who had gone to investigate the incident was also shot and injured in the abdomen. Madzikatire is claiming $500 000 from Redwing Mine. The security guards reportedly disappeared from the scene after the shooting.Centre for Natural Resource Governance which is representing the pair, has engaged Harare lawyer Mr Jacob Mafume from Mafume Law Chambers, to sue Redwing Mine.Mr Mafume wrote a letter to the company requesting compensation, but the company denied liability. Mr Mafume is now seeking legal recourse at the High Court and will file the summons today. In the letter dated September 21, Mr Mafume submitted that Lewani was the sole breadwinner. The aforementioned security guards were acting during the course and scope of their employment when they committed these acts, he said. As a result of the murder of Lewani by the guards under employ and instruction, our client (Munorwei) suffered damages which include loss of support, companionship, funeral expenses, pain and anguish of the death of her husband. We are also of the view that these shootings were not only wrongful, but had what seemed to be an element of deliberateness. As a result we have instructions to also demand punitive damages against this conduct should the company maintain that it has a right to take life outside the exceptions granted by our Constitution under Article 12. Mr Mafume said there had been neither an apology nor statement of regret by any of the company officials.The security guards, who committed the alleged offences are back at work. Our instructions are to give you notice as we hereby do, of that intended suit. We are in the process of quantifying the damages. We are also amenable to a round table conference to discuss this matter. Mr Mafume said his clients were going to sue the company for a combined figure of $1 million. In an emotional interview during a press conference, Munorwei said the mining company only gave her $700 after the death of her husband. I was left with a one-year-old child and I am failing to look after him since my husband was the breadwinner. All I want from the company is compensation for loss of support. I made several visits to the mine, but was met by lukewarm response from the authorities, she said.Madzikatire said he did not get anything from the company. In response to Mr Mafume s letters, the mining company denied responsibility. Please note that the allegations made in the letters are denied and the company does not accept any liability whatsoever for the claims made by your clients, read the letter signed by one Z. Nsimbi, the company s corporate affairs executive.