Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HWANGE players have called off their industrial action and shifted focus to the rivalry with giants Dynamos in a match they need to win at Rufaro on Sunday to push for a top eight finish in the Castle Lager Premiership marathon. The coal miners lost about three days of preparations after players refused to train in protest over unpaid bonuses and signing-on fees dating back to last year.They had also threatened to boycott the trip to Harare. But they softened their stance after the club s management came up with a payment plan starting this month.Hwange coach Mebelo Njekwa was relieved with the development yesterday. Everything is back to normal now. Of course, the situation was a hindrance to our preparations but we are not crying too much because in terms of fitness, which I think matters most, I think the players are okay. They have been playing football all season. But we will need to do a lot of work to prepare our boys psychologically. It has been a stressful period and we will need to make sure everyone is focused. The good thing, from what I see, is that the players are all looking sharp. It s only that we are facing a wounded buffalo in Dynamos. They haven t had a good season and they are also eager to turn things around. So we expect a tough game. Remember it s been a battle whenever these two clubs met in these past seasons, said Njekwa.Hwange are currently fourth from the bottom of the table with 31 points from 25 starts. They have struggled for consistency this season and, ironically, one of their players Gift Mbweti, is the current joint top scorer in the league on nine goals together with CAPS United s Leonard Tsipa.Hwange beat basement side Border Strikers 2-0 in their last league match. Our position on the log table is not that good. We definitely need to move up the ladder because there is still a very good chance of being in the top eight at the end of the season. The most encouraging thing is that we are facing about three of the teams that are also aiming to fill the places in the top eight. Only about four points separate us and what it basically means is that if we are to go above Chapungu we have to beat them, if we are to go past Ngezi we have to beat them as well. So it s about winning all our own games. We still believe we can finish in the top eight, said Njekwa. Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa has rested goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva for this game while defender Sydney Linyama is likely to make a comeback.The battle for supremacy gathers momentum as the top three FC Platinum, CAPS United and Highlanders face tricky away assignments. FC Platinum, who are enjoying a one point lead at the top, travel to Harare City tomorrow, while second-placed CAPS United will be away at Border Strikers on Sunday.Highlanders, who remain the dark horses in the intriguing three horse contest have a date with Chapungu at Ascot tomorrow.FixturesTomorrowNgezi Platinum v Tsholotsho (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Triangle (Nyamhunga), How Mine v Mutare City (Luveve), Harare City v FC Platinum (Rufaro), Chapungu v Highlanders (Ascot)SundayBulawayo City v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Hwange (Rufaro), Border Strikers v CAPS United (Dulivhadzimu)