Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter THE Chibuku Super Cup dream final is still on after FC Platinum and Highlanders were kept apart in the semi-finals at a draw conducted at the Premier Soccer League offices in Harare yesterday. FC Platinum were drawn against Harare City while Bosso will battle it out with Ngezi Platinum in the other semi-final match. After the draw, Bosso representative Derrick Gijima declared they were gunning for the trophy and were looking to get past Ngezi Platinum in a fortnight.The semi-finals have been scheduled for the weekend of October 22 to 23 and the PSL, in consultation with broadcaster SuperSport, will determine the venues for the two matches. The Chibuku Super Cup final will be on November 5 and the team which wins earns a ticket to play in the CAF Confederation Cup next year. I think it is a decent draw because all the four teams left are playing some good football. We respect Ngezi and I hope we will have a good game, beat them and progress. We recently met in a good game, they were very balanced but we showed character that the game is never won before 90 minutes. Last year, we lost to How Mine in the first round but we have turned around the tables and we are playing good football. We are not looking back and the next thing is to probably lift the trophy. We are playing very well in the league and we have gained momentum, said Gijima.Ngezi Platinum chairman Jeremiah Gasiteni said it was a fair draw. I think it gives us a chance to revenge what they did to us when we went to Bulawayo. I think it would be a good opportunity for the guys to redeem themselves. We are now looking forward to the final, I think we are prepared for the encounter. We have played them, we know how they play and it should also play to our advantage. We don t have much pressure, Highlanders have got pressure racing for the championship, he said.FC Platinum spokesperson Chido Chizondo said they were relishing another clash with Harare City after meeting in the inaugural Chibuku Super Cup final in 2014, which they eventually won. The draw was fair and it would be an interesting encounter considering that we met Harare City in the first Chibuku Super Cup final, there were fireworks in that game and I am sure there would be definitely fireworks in this game, said Chizondo.Interestingly, the two teams, meet in a league match at Rufaro. Defending champions Harare City media officer Hope Chizuzu said they hope to continue with their fine performance in the Cup game. We play very well in Cup competitions but in league competitions we are yet to really strike a very good chord but because it is a Cup competition, we know we have to perform inside 90 minutes and we have sort of mastered the art of doing so. It is a good draw, if we have to be honest and I think all the football purists would really want to come watch FC Platinum play Harare City. Technically we have been drawn to play at home, and if we are playing at home it would be Rufaro, but they are going to decide on the best venues with the broadcaster. But even if the match is taken to Mandava Stadium, it would still be good for Harare City, we actually play better away, said Chizuzu.Chibuku Super Cup semi-finals drawNgezi Platinum v Highlanders; Harare City v FC Platinum