Alick Macheso. . . musician postpones Ireland tourGodwin Muzari: Arts EditorAlick Macheso has been forced to postpone his show in Ireland that was scheduled for tomorrow to December 2 following a delay in the processing of visas for the tour. The musician and his band were supposed to perform in Dublin courtesy of Testimony Entertainment Promotions, but they will have to wait for another month before making the trip. The development comes after a similar occurrence in July when Macheso travelled with five instead of eight band members for his UK tour when others failed to get visas. Macheso s publicist Tich Makahamadze said they were not sure of reasons for delay of visas since they submitted their applications about three months ago.He said they expected the visas to be out within the stipulated period because most of their visa applications are usually processed within two months. We applied for visas of nine people that were supposed to travel to Ireland for this week s show, but the process has taken longer than we expected and we have postponed the tour to December, said Makahamadze. We submitted our applications about three months ago and the promoter also did his paperwork on time. We are not sure what led to the delay. When we were told on Tuesday that the visas were not yet ready, we realised we could not make it for tour and the promoter moved the date. We are getting feedback from the embassy tomorrow (today) and we will be able to tell what happened. However, we are hopeful the process will be complete soon and we believe most or all of the band members that are supposed to go for the tour will travel in December. Macheso is supposed to travel with drummer Givemore Chokumanya, guitarists Tafi Fire Nyamunda and Mike Maikoro as well as vocalists/dancers Jonasi Kasamba, Seleman Majuice Mupochi and Wilson Twitter Meka.The musician s manager Lucky Macheso will be leading team that is slightly different from the depleted team that travelled to UK in July.During the UK tour Macheso went with Donald Gogo, Devine Wezhira Muzenda, Obert Gomba, Majuice and Twitter. The pending show would be the musician s second tour of Ireland after the 2008 debut visit that came as an extra gig of his UK tour.