Chinese Premier Li KeqiangBEIJING. &#8211; As Saturday marked the 67th anniversary of the founding of the People s Republic of China, the nation has become increasingly confident in marching along the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The birth of New China has greatly changed the destiny of this big country in the East, said Premier Li Keqiang, while addressing a reception to celebrate the anniversary here on Friday.Over the past 67 years, especially since the start of the reform and opening up in 1978, under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, the Chinese people of all ethnic groups have forged ahead against all odds and succeeded in turning a once poor and weak country into the world s second biggest economy. The Chinese nation, once bullied and humiliated, is now well on the way towards great rejuvenation. The Chinese people, once short of food and clothing, are moving towards a moderately prosperous society in an all-round way, Li said.The G20 summit that concluded early last month in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou has left a Chinese mark in the G20 history.In addition, China s Tiangong-2 space lab blasted off on September 15, marked another milestone in its increasingly ambitious space programme, which envisions a mission to Mars by the end of this decade and its own space station by around 2020.Great changes have also taken place since China drew up the outline for its 13th five-year plan on economic and social development.Comprehensive reforms have been carried out to ensure that people equally share the proceeds of such reforms and remain satisfied.As China is still a developing country, it needs a stable environment both at home and on its doorstep to sustain growth.At a massive military parade on September 3 last year to mark the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II and the Chinese People s War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, Chinese President Xi Jinping highlighted China s aspirations for peace while announcing a reduction in the number of military troops by 300 000. China will remain committed to peaceful development. We Chinese love peace. No matter how much stronger we may become, China will never seek hegemony or expansion. It will never inflict its past suffering on any other nation, Xi said.In the diplomatic sphere, Xi has been advocating a global community with a shared future. A series of projects, including the Belt and Road Initiative and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, serve to highlight China as a responsible and active player in global develop- ment.Looking forward, economic and social development will continue to be China s central mission.Authorities will work to increase people s incomes, boost social welfare, enhance environmental protection and food safety, give the public a greater sense of accomplishment, and lift more people from poverty. &#8211; Xinhua.