Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports ReporterFROM humble beginnings in the backyard gym back in Epworth, Gideon Teguru is looking to move mountains tomorrow when he competes in his first Mr Zimbabwe body-building contest at the Harare International School in Mt Pleasant. Teguru, the surprise package when he came second in the recent Mr Iron Man Zimbabwe 2016, yesterday said he is ready to make his name on the big stage.He will compete in the 75-85kg category. I think I have done enough in terms of preparations. I know there is going to be tough competition from a number of athletes some coming as far afield as Botswana and South Africa who have better training facilities, sponsors and supplements but I don t doubt myself. My secret to success is hard work and sacrifice. I sacrifice a lot of time in the gym and I have put in a lot in preparation for this event. So I am only expecting to finish top in my category. I am working towards that, said Teguru.The 25-year old started fitness training four years ago in Epworth and then made his debut on the stage two years later finishing third in the Mr Novice Fitness category.But he took a break before deciding to return this year at the Mr Iron Man Zimbabwe which was held at the Long Chen Plaza on August 27.Teguru is drawing confidence from his performance at the contest where he finished second to his Raylton Gym training partner, Nunurai Masosonere.His faith was accentuated by the fact that he placed ahead of veteran Isaac Sugar Chimuchenga who finished third at the competition. He is now eyeing for even bigger things at the grand stage. Everything is in place, I am in good shape. We have been working very hard with my coach Nicholas Muteiwa. I am not afraid of anyone. Just bring them on, said Teguru.Preparations for the contest are now at an advanced stage. The National Federation of Zimbabwe Body-building and Fitness spokesperson Quiet Shangai said all was in place for the Mr and Ms Zimbabwe body-building and fitness championships 2016 edition.They are hoping the event, which has attracted over 150 athletes will surpass the standards set last year.Texas Meats have partnered them as the flagship sponsors.There is going to be a new champions this year after last year s winner Champion Chienderamwano opted out due to an injury.But the organisers are still expecting top drawer competition with Masosonere expected to live his dream against the likes of two-time Mr Botswana Upenyu Mahlaulo, South Africa based Edward Mutero, 2008 Mr Zimbabwe overall winner Tarirai Chirume, Paul Goredema, Ndumiso Dhlodhlo, Lovemore Munyamana, Nigel Maphosa and the 2004 and 2005 Mr Zimbabwe Munashe Matandirotya who makes a return after an eight year hiatus.Defending Ms Zimbabwe champion Regina Jonga will be looking to retain her title while Arnold Classics 2016 fourth place finisher Precious Mujuru, Ashleigh Dube and Shantel Batch have confirmed participation in their categories.Registration of athletes will take place this afternoon and will continue early tomorrow morning.Afterwards the athletes will go through the prejudging process which begins at 9:30am with the main event set to take place in the evening tomorrow. Athletes registration cost $15 for paid up members and $20 for non-paid up members. Admissions are pegged at $10 general, $15 VIP advance and $20 VIP on the day, said Shangai.