Teachers play a key role in education and students life. Education is necessary to groom politicians, businessmen, artistes, farmers, religious groups, designers, doctors, lawyers and many other professionals.It is that time of year again. This is when sleep is lost and your stress levels reach an alarmingly high level. Yes cool people: it s exam season.Although it only seems like yesterday that you sat in a stuffy exam hall and cried over the fact that you didn t read that section of your notes that would have helped you answer the question, you are back at the square again. It s time to brush off the study cobwebs and get your head buried academic reports. Grade Seven has already started and about to finish while the Ordinary-Level and Advanced-Level begins next week.We say good luck and may the good Lord bless you. However, let s face it, studying is not what you want to be doing right now.You want to be playing video games, reading up on your celebrity gossip, hanging out with your friends or watching movies. Even cleaning your room would disturb preparing for your exams right about now!Exam stress is tough, but if you want to get somewhere, you have to put the work in. Just like when you re in the gym and your instructor shouts motivational comments to keep the pressure on.No matter what type of student you are, grade or form or college level, just know it is a phase. Still in the educational boat, we say happy belated Teachers Day which was on last Monday.Teachers play a key role in education and also student s life. Education is necessary to groom politicians, businessmen, artistes, farmers, religious groups, designers, doctors, lawyers and many other professionals.Let s respect them as they are shaping our future. Well, lets turn to our cool style. Exams will be over and it will be time to hang out again. And you surely want to keep abreast with latest trends.Okay, in our closet is the most forgotten but cherished, the Alice band. Once upon a time a princess wore tiaras and crowns.She had all the other girls dream about her perfect hairdos embellished with jewellery created just for her. This is a style for a true gypsy girl.To make it trendy, choose details inspired by the 70s: the headcarfs by Alessandra Rich to wear as a bandanna, knotted around the head or as a turban; a zigzag motif for the iconic Missoni house; the Alice band with Plexiglas maxi flower (perfect for a hippy-chic soul) by Vickisarge.Be playful with ironic and pop details New princesses and new ladies wear the hair band with crystal appliqu by Jennifer Behr or the hair band with maxi middle diamond by Piers Atkinson.Enough of fashion!!! So the curtain comes down tonight on Zimbabwe International Film Festival where more than 50 films where showcased from local to international.This year was bigger and better as they managed to accommodate the teenagers, instructing them how best to behave on and off camera. Our movie of the week is The Girl on the Train which is now showing at all Ster Kinekor theatres in HarareLast year s mega-best selling thriller from Paula Hawkins has been adapted for the cinema pronto. But this hottest of literary properties lands with a lukewarm splat on the movie screen: a guessable contrivance with a biggish plot hole.Emily Blunt plays Rachel, a sad and lonely woman whose life has collapsed since the end of her marriage. She was with Tom (Justin Theroux), but the relationship was put under fatal strain by their failure to get pregnant.To add to her current wretchedness, Tom is now together with the woman with whom he was cheating on her: Anna (Rebecca Ferguson), who has given him an adorable baby.Now Rachel drinks vodka all day, obsessed about Tom and Anna, has rages and blackouts, and in a pathetic state of denial rides the suburban commuter train into Manhattan where she has long since been fired from her PR job on account of the booze.But Rachel has formed a weird obsession: every day, from the train window, she glimpses scenes from the life of what looks to her like an enviably perfect couple: an unfeasibly gorgeous blonde woman and her handsome, devoted man (who turn out to be called Megan and Scott, played by Haley Bennett and Luke Evans).She fantasises about who these people are. But then she witnesses a shocking event; this woman turns out to have a domestic connection with Rachel, which is to lead her into a web of cruelty and murder.The idea has promising resemblances to Alfred Hitchcock or Patrick Hamilton, and Hawkins could also have taken something from Agatha Christie s detective story 4:50 From Paddington , in which someone looks out from their train directly into the carriage of one running alongside at the same speed, and sees someone being strangled.The plot thickens as Rachel cultivates a tense relationship with Scott, and with tough cop detective Riley. ZIFF has come to an end and you can catch the hottest movies at the cinemas Keep swaggering.