Chief Supt NyathiCrime ReporterPolice have expressed concern over the upsurge in murder cases and urged people to desist from taking the law into their hands. This comes in the wake of recent murder cases that were recorded in Lupane and Filabusi last week. National police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi urged people to solve their disputes amicably. In the first case, a 31-year-old man from Mahlaba line in Sipepa, Lupane, had a misunderstanding with his brother. The accused person then went to his elder brother s homestead and took his dog. The elder brother, angered by accused s action, followed him to his homestead and struck him with a knobkerrie. The accused retaliated by striking him with a wire dropper. He lost consciousness and was ferried to Sipepa Hospital where he was pronounced dead. The accused person was later arrested, he said.Chief Supt Nyathi said on the second incident, a 29-year-old man from Ukhuthula village, in Filabusi was stoned to death in the bush by two men following a misunderstanding.He said the man was on his way from Sidulini Business Centre where he had been drinking beer with his friends when he was confronted by the two men. The two stoned him and fled. In another incident which occurred on October 8, 2016 at around 1200 hours at Kamativi Compound Dam, two female juveniles aged 11 and seven drowned. A boy aged 17 had gone to water the garden and wash clothes in the company of the two girls, Chief Supt Nyathi said. He said he left them playing in the water and later found them missing. The bodies were later discovered floating in the dam the following day and were taken to Kamativi Clinic mortuary. The Zimbabwe Republic Police is urging members of the public to resolve their disputes amicably without resorting to violence. Meanwhile, parents or guardians are urged to ensure that children are not left alone at water bodies, Chief Supt Nyathi said.He said police were still investigating the cases and are appealing for information concerning the whereabouts of the two suspects who committed the second murder case to contact any nearest police station or the national complaints desk on (04) 703631.