LIVERPOOL. Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho claimed that his team had exposed Liverpool s shortcomings after holding Jurgen Klopp s well-regarded team to a 0-0 draw. In a device designed to fend off allegations that he had been defensive in the game, Mourinho who declared the stadium to have been the quietest Anfield I ve had said: You like to say they are the last wonder of the world in attacking football but they are also defend and like to think defensive. Liverpool went into Monday night s game at Anfield seeking a sixth successive win in all competitions and bidding to draw level on points with English Premier League soccer leaders Manchester City and second-place Arsenal.But United restricted them to few chances, with visiting goalkeeper David de Gea largely untroubled apart from a pair of eye-catching second-half saves to deny Emre Can and Philippe Coutinho. The goalkeeper (De Gea) was on holiday for 90 minutes, but he had two big saves to do and he did, said Mourinho, whose side remain seventh in the table. When we recover the ball I was expecting the team to be more dangerous, (although) we had two good chances, but Liverpool did too. They are not the last wonder of the world like you (the media) say they are, but they are a very good team so we had to adapt a little to them. Premier League statisticians Opta said United had only had 35 percent of possession their lowest tally for a league fixture since such statistics started being gathered in the 2003-04 season. But Mourinho returned to the press conference room after he had finished addressing reporters to say the club s own statisticians thought United had seen more of the ball. My guy did it 42 (percent), not 35, he said, having re-emerged through a side door. I thought it was crazy. We do it ourselves with better people than them. He had earlier dismissed the importance of statistics, pointing out that United had won 1-0 at Anfield under his predecessor Louis van Gaal last season despite being largely outplayed. Last season United won here, Liverpool had 14 shots on target and United had one, he said. How many shots on target did Liverpool have on target today? Two. Two shots on target with 65 percent of possession. You have to be critical of Liverpool. It is their problem, not our problem. United largely succeeded in stifling Liverpool, with wide players Marcus Rashford and Ashley Young notably dropping deep to create a six-man defence at times.The visitors procured a clear sight of goal early in the second half when Paul Pogba, playing in a more advanced role, picked out Zlatan Ibrahimovic, only for the Swede to miscue his header.Liverpool improved following the 59th-minute introduction of Adam Lallana, either side of which De Gea showed characteristically snappy reactions to foil Can and Coutinho. We lost patience far too early and our passing game was not good, said Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp, whose side trail City by two points. We had 65 percent possession, but we have to do better. I didn t expect we would have 10 to 15 chances. Second half we had chances, but De Gea was finally warm and he made brilliant saves. AFP.