Tedious Manyepo Sports ReporterZIFA president Philip Chiyangwa has called upon Zimbabweans to come in their numbers and create an electric atmosphere at the Harare International Conference Centre where World Boxing Council s silver welterweight champion Charles Manyuchi will take to the ring against Colombia s Jose Agustin Julio Feria in a non-title bout tomorrow.Chiyangwa has previously promoted boxing and has since promised something special for Manyuchi, having already offered him a residential stand in one of Harare s leafy suburbs.The ZIFA boss is expected to be one of the spectators at the event whose guest of honour will be Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko. Manyuchi has done the country proud in recent years. He has gone out of the country so many times, fought there and came out victorious. He is the best boxer we have in the country at the moment. People should come in their numbers to support him. This is the first time in recent times that a boxing match pitting Manyuchi is being held in Zimbabwe. So, we should make the most out of it and show the world that we are sports people, said Chiyangwa.Chiyangwa said Manyuchi should try to use his strengths to win the game by a knockout. Charles is known for throwing quick fire punches and he should do the same on Friday. We are expecting a thriller, but Manyuchi has to go on his opponent strongly and try to win the match by a knockout. Seven supporting bouts including a women s WBC welterweight title fight between Zambia s Lolitha Muzeya and Agnes Mtimaukanena of Malawi, will take place before Manyuchi trades leather with Feria.Entrance fees for the event has been pegged at $50 for spectators who will be housed in Section A while those who will opt for Section B will be required to part with $15 with the rest of the arena tickets going for $5.Manyuchi has since expressed confidence that he will come out victorious as it will be a matter of him fighting against his student .Mr T35, Manyuchi s local sponsors, have already pledged a car for the fighter regardless of the outcome of the bout.