Terence Mapuka Cool Lifestyle CorrespondentFor many teens, the realisation that building something of your own beats working for someone comes to them naturally, but coming up with the right idea is not always easy. The good part is that if you are a teen and are reading this, whatever business you decide to start you are already way ahead other people your age.It is quite challenging to enter into the world of entrepreneurship. However, if you do it, you will know that all the hard work, setbacks and challenges that come cannot be compared to the rewards of starting and growing your own business. Do not let anything stop you, if business is your dream, by all means go for it.Business is about a great idea and the resources to establish it. I want to share on the business ideas for you as a teenager.Idea generationThere are so many ways one can get into business. It is a matter of paying attention to the needs around you and finding out which of the problems you can solve. When you solve people s problems you are establishing a business.People need food, shelter, convenience, entertainment and health; in all these areas and some not mentioned you can start a business. So you can sit down and write down all the possible options you have for business.You do your research thoroughly on how it can be done, what is required and how you can get it.Generating the idea is the first step into establishing a business, it is therefore important that you do it well to start with the correct idea for your business.Established entrepreneurs will tell you that the ideas that they started with are not always the ones that they will grow with. Along the way the first idea can fail or you can actually realise a better idea to continue with. The secret is not to give up.Impact of technologyAs a teenager you need to learn as much as possible the use of technology. It is not going away it is here to stay and having the appropriate skills can help your business grow big. Technology means convenience and it is that convenience that people can pay a lot of money for.Skills like programming, coding and e-commerce are important if you have chosen the path in business. You will also appreciate that it is not only in business that this set of skills is required, it is important for your personal development and marketability in the work place.Striking the right balanceMany a times when there are money issues people get carried away. It is important for teens to strike the right balance between their school work and any business projects they get into. You do not want to jeopardise your school work as it is the platform for you to learn from for your business.Most of the project activities can be done during school holidays and the long breaks for those who would have finished writing external examinations.Resource mobilisationOne of the limiting factors to starting a business is financial capital. What you need to learn is that if you have a great idea you will surely attract the required resources. There is a famous quote by Victor Hugo which says, nothing is as powerful as an idea whose time has come. You can keep abreast with current news of the different organizations that are supporting ideas from the youth.Terence is with zwTEENS an organisation which deals with teens and issues affecting them. You can reach Terence on 0772101601, WhatsApp 0772128170, terence@zwteens.com or visit their websitewww.zwteens.com