Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports ReporterTHE Zimbabwe Under-16 Copa Coca-Cola will fine tune their preparations in a professional environment after they left the country yesterday to set base at South Africa s High performance Centre. Twelve players were selected during the annual Copa Coca-Cola national finals that were held in Gwanda earlier this year and won by Glendale s Rujeko High School.Dubbed the Dream Team , the players will have an opportunity to meet their counterparts from seven other countries Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, Zambia, Malawi and South Africa.Coach Albert Mucheka yesterday said they are happy and believe the exposure for the young players would do a lot to shape their careers. This year the format has changed and we will not play any competitive matches as a team, but rather have the players play in different teams. I think it is good as it will help them develop their communication. The team has players from different parts of the country which is good for us. The boys are very happy and with the tour of South Africa we know they will learn a lot. The tour is good as it will work as an exchange programme and we hope to see the boys return home knowing other languages and cultures, Mucheka said.The players are expected to get mentorship from experienced coaches.Rujeko High School from Mashonaland Central had their student Tatenda Jamu making it into the team.Jamu said he is looking forward to the trip and believes he will learn a lot. I am very happy to be part of the 12 players travelling to South Africa and I thank my school for allowing me the opportunity. The tour will help me learn how other countries develop their soccer players from the junior level. I am grateful as it is my first time to be here at the airport so I think this is a lifetime experience, said Jamu who is 15-years-old.Team:Mzangaye Sibanda (Mzingwane), Washington Nkomo (Gwanda), Ronald Master (Chemhanza), Munashe Pin (Churchill), Lee Runodamoto (Dewure), Kelvin Chirema (Chemhanza) Edward Machinya (Dewure), Matrpples Muleya (Sobukazi), Tafadzwa Musamba (Chemhanza), Panashe Mapuranga (Rujeko), Tatenda Jamu (Rujeko).