Commuter-OmnibusesGovernment said it plans to establish an all-purpose transport management centre that will house institutions involved in licensing, road use and management as a means to cut red tape as well as corruption. Transport and Infrastructural Development permanent secretary, Munesu Munodawafa said the ministry had acquired 3,3 hectares of land along the Harare-Bulawayo highway, near the Kuwadzana roundabout where the new headquarters would be constructed. A total of $630 000 has so far been spent in acquiring the land and initial development works, he said.Provisionally, the building would house the Central Vehicle Registry (CVR), Vehicle Inspection Department (VID) and the Road Motor Transport (RMT) department which is responsible for issuing licences for public transport providers. The distance between those two centres (VID and CVR) at times creates loopholes and causes people to cut corners, Mr Munodawafa said at a pre-budget meeting. You have a paper that has to be signed at CVR and you need another one at the VID andthis forces people to cut corners so we have decided that we want to build a transport management centre where we will house RMT, CVR and VID. The VID, primarily responsible for issuance of certificate of fitness for vehicles especially public transporters as well as licensing and testing of drivers, is accused of being one of the most corrupt Government departments. Once our plan is approved, we will start building a TMC and we will move the chaos and congestion that is in Eastlea and Belvedere and at the CVR, Mr Munodawafa said.Meanwhile, Mr Munodawafa said his ministry was appealing to the Government to increase its retainer fee for revenues mobilised from VID services from the current 5 percent to 15 percent to enable the department to fund its expansion activities. We have identified 10 VID sites that we could do but we are failing to move on to do that because we do not have funding, he said.He said RMT was also decentralising its office which only used to be in Harare, disadvantaging the public. We have started a project of decentralisation and opened an office in Mutare at a cost of $214 000, said Mr Munodawafa, adding offices were also being established in Chinhoyi, Gweru and Masvingo. New Ziana.