JUBA/MOGADISHU. &#8211; The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) on Friday decried increased violence in South Sudan s Yei, a town situated in Central Equatoria state, about 150km southwest of the capital Juba. The security situation in Yei deteriorated rapidly after renewed conflict broke out in Juba in early July and came to a head earlier this month (September 11-13), forcing thousands of civilians to flee their homes, the UNHCR said in a statement.Troops led by President Salva Kiir and those loyal to former First Vice President Riek Machar clashed in early July in Juba, triggering new waves of violence in the country.According to the UNHCR, this is the first time that people in Yei, mainly farmers, have become a direct target of violence.The UNHCR says Yei residents spoke of horrific violence against civilians, including assaults, targeted killings, looting and burning of property. Several civilians have been hacked to death.The UNHCR says those displaced, and up to 60 000 local residents who remain in Yei, are in need of humanitarian assistance. Displaced people need food, household items, medicines, and the children need access to schools. Food prices are skyrocketing, with basic commodities quickly disappearing from the market, the statement said.Deteriorating security in South Sudan has forced more than 200 000 people to flee the country since July 8, bringing the number of South Sudanese refugees in neighboring countries to over one million. And more than 1,61 million people are internally dis- placed.Meanwhile, UNHCR announced on Friday the appointment of Kenyan Mohamed Abdi Affey as its special envoy on the Somali refugee situation for an initial duration of six months.UNHCR chief Filippo Grandi Grandi said in a statement that the special envoy will help search solutions for Somali refugees and asylum seekers at national and regional level, and enhance dialogue between governments of asylum countries, Somalia and the international community to help maintain asylum for Somali refugees. The special envoy will also provide advice on how best to address protection concerns and identify appropriate solutions, the statement said. The special envoy will provide specific support to efforts to provide humanitarian and development resources for the reintegration of Somali returnees, it added.The UNHCR and Kenya are repatriating Somali refugees living in Dadaab, the world s largest refugee camp in northern Kenya. &#8211; Xinhua.