Lifestyle Writer Try imagining your life without technology. Without alarm clocks, refrigerators, computers, telephones and so on. It would be very different from what we are accustomed to today. The truth is, all of us rely on technology a great deal to get through the day. Whether it s at work, home, or school,everyone depends greatly on technology.New technology is being developed everyday to help make life easier, such as smart homes that turn appliances on and off at our direction, or speech recognition devices. These technologies are generally based on sequence labelling; which classifies how tasks occur in a consequential sequence.For many people finding a short term accommodation at affordable rates has been a nightmare within Zimbabwe, as they get duped by several bogus accommodation agents. This has prompted the birth of ZimRooms which was founded in July 2016.The ZimRooms platform is a community marketplace for property owners to list their houses, B&amp;B, and Lodges to make discoverability easier. Renters around the world will be able to find suitable short term accommodation in Zimbabwe using just their mobile phones or tablets.ZimRooms connects hosts and guests using advanced software system on their platform and will increase traffic too your business, they use modern digital marketing strategies such as managing complex customer relationships and extract value from big data to make better decisions faster. In an interview with Saturday Herald Lifestyle , chief executive officer, Wellington Nyaunwa said that the platform makes short term bookings super easy. It is an easy booking way whether you are a Diasporian visiting for a week or just want to get away from the hustle and bustle of day to day life by booking a hide-away or holiday house for a few days, he said.Nyaunwa said their objective is to make predictability, affordability and discoverability a simple process when you are looking for a place to stay in Zimbabwe. Anyone who has a property that they want to rent out for short term purposes can sign up for free. Registration is very simple less than five minutes you are done ready to make some income, he said.The United Kingdom-based genius said property owners have the privilege to consider who stays in their property. Also they can use guest profile to accept or decline a reservation. When a guest finds a listing and makes a booking, the owner receives a reservation message from guest. The property owner can then reply to the guest using the inbuilt messaging platform. This will help them understand their guest a bit more as they can broadly communicate about the property and arrange suitable check-in times. They can then meet upon check-in for the key hand-over or any other arrangements that suit both parties. The platform s security features allow property owner to have peace of mind as each guest must go through a verification process requiring them to provide identity information, such as Facebook, LinkedIn and mobile phone number, explained Nyaumwa.He said property owners decide how best to host their guests. ZimRooms handles all of the payments, the property owners will never have to deal directly with money. Guests get charged before they arrive. The payment is automatically sent 24 hours after your guest checks in, he said.