Thupeyo Muleya in BEITBRIDGE&#8212; Border Strikers&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;..(1)1 CAPS United&#8230;&#8230;.(2)3 AGELESS forward Leonard Tsipa s dream season continued yesterday as he struck again, to extend his lead in the race for the Golden Boot, while firing CAPS United to the top of the Castle Premier Soccer League table. With just four matches left in the campaign, the Green Machine are in full control of the championship race as they opened a two-point gap between them and FC Platinum and have their fate in their hands.If they win their remaining four matches, CAPS United will be champions for the first time in 11 years irrespective of what happens elsewhere. While there are still many tough hurdles to clear, Makepekepe have never had it this good since Charles Mhlauri led them to a second league title, in as many years, in 2005.With their main rivals, FC Platinum and Highlanders set to cancel each other when they meet in the penultimate game of the season, CAPS United have reason to dream big. Makepekepe will face their biggest rivals Dynamos in their next match before completing their season with matches against Harare City (away), Ngezi Platinum (home) and Chapungu (away).Yesterday, CAPS United responded to FC Platinum s loss, 24 hours earlier, at the hands of Harare City, to turn on the show and power to a deserved victory at Dulivhadzimu yesterday. Tsipa, who is enjoying an excellent season, pushed his team into the lead in the 21st minute with a diving header after having been set up by winger Phineas Bamusi.The hosts replied a minute later when Farai Mususunye fired home after getting to the end of a pass from Livingstone Genti. With both teams playing attacking football, it was the visitors whose quality shone brightly who dominated the show and they deservedly went ahead again two minutes before the breather when Simba Nhivi s powerful shot found the target. The home team s defender, Shelton Mazumba, was sent off a few seconds before the break for a rough challenge on Ronald Pfumbidzai, leaving Masvingo referee Arnold Ncube with no option.Though Border Strikers were relentless in attack, they clearly missed their link man, Godfrey Mukambi, who was on suspension for accumulating three yellow cards. In the second half, CAPS coach Lloyd Chitembwe replaced Tsipa with Dominic Chungwa on the hour mark. Chungwa combed well with Bamusi and Pfumbidzai for the third goal scored by the returning Tafadzwa Rusike in the 88th minute.Rusike, who has been troubled by injuries, had come in for Abbas Amidu in the 69th minute. Chitembwe said his men could even have scored more goals. We conceded an unnecessary goal and we wasted a lot of chances but, generally, I am happy with this victory, he said. The whole idea is to collect maximum points and compete for more honours. Border Strikers coach Luke Masomere said his men will battle on. I am disappointed with the result though we played well. We have been working hard on our attack, we were our own enemies, we created a lot of chances, but failed to convert and we were punished. This loss does not mean we are losing hope, we will fight right up to the last match of the season. We will continue working on our shortcomings so that we survive relegation. I want to win the next game. Teams: Border Strikers: T. Sande, S. Mazumba, E. Mwinga, M. Variso, L. Genti, T. Mugadzaweta, M. Mwenya, J. Borges( D Tito 80th min), K. Kwashi, W. Nyoni, F. Musunye.CAPS United: J. Muchambo, H. Zvirekwi, R. Pfumbidzai, C. Munzabwa, D. Dauda, D. Chafa, L. Tsipa (D. Chungwa 60th min), T. Rusike (A. Amidu 69th min), P. Bamusi, J. Ngonzo, S. Nhivi.