A CONFIDENT LEADER. . .Sri Lanka stand-in skipper Rangana Herath addresses a media conference in Harare yesterday ahead of his team s Test showdown against Zimbabwe todayBrighton ZhawiAs the Chevrons walk out for the country s milestone 100th Test match against Sri Lanka this morning, Hamilton Masakadza, the most capped player among the group, has urged his teammates to go for glory. From the Churchill teenager that made history by scoring a Test ton on debut against West Indies in 2001, Masakadza has gone on to earn 30 caps for his country making him the seventh most capped Zimbabwean Test player. (We have to) recognise the momentous occasion for what it is and embrace how big it is for us to finally reach the milestone given how little test match cricket we play. We got to embrace it, but don t get carried away, play hard cricket, enjoy the game and work hard to mark the 100th with a victory and get the series to a winning start, said Masakadza.The 33-year-old is also making a return to the side after a back injury forced him to miss the second Test against New Zealand in August said he is keen to improve his unpleasing record against Sri Lanka. Masakadza also needs 269 runs to become the fifth Zimbabwean to reach 2000 Test runs. Personal milestones are secondary, the most important thing is that I go out there and put some significant runs on the board for the team, he said. That is what I am focused on at the moment. It is a very important series for us and it s up to the batting unit as a whole to score enough runs to help us win the first test, said Masakadza who averages a lowly 10.25 in two matches against Sri Lanka.Zimbabwe captain Graeme, who has 13 Test matches against his name, has urged his lads to savour today s historic match. It is huge, an amazing honour for me, he said. I have asked the guys to enjoy the occasion and enjoy being part of history as well as trying to be aggressive against the opposition.Cremer also revealed that their camp is buzzing. Guys are really excited; there is an atmosphere in the changing room I have not seen in a long time. Everyone is enjoying Heath (Streak) and we think we are ready to take on a good but inexperienced Sri Lankan side, he said.The skipper wishes Zimbabwe s next 100 Test matches will come with change of fortunes. We certainly hope so, we feel that we have a good group of guys, the experience is there as well as some younger guys coming through the ranks we would like to make some history of our own, said Cremer.In Zimbabwe s 100 Tests they have played Sri Lanka 15 times with no win but have drawn five matches with three of those draws coming in the first series between the two nations. Zimbabwe has played most Test matches (17) against New Zealand and Pakistan while the least number of games (3) have come against the Aussies.Against other Test playing the matches is six against England, 14 versus Bangladesh, India (11), South Africa (eight) and the West Indies are also on eight matches.