Morgan HeritageArts Reporters It was a historic affair as Jamaican group Morgan Heritage performed in Zimbabwe for the first time and left lasting impressions at Harare International Conference Centre on Saturday night. The group lived to its billing and exhibited its international expertise. Before the show, the group s spokesperson said they would exceed people s expectations and he was on point.They did just that. As early as 9pm, the venue was filled with merrymakers as they anxiously waited for the artistes to go on stage. The mood was high as people danced the night away when local artistes warmed the stage for Morgan Heritage. Freeman took to the stage early and the musician thrilled fans with songs from his new album.Clad in a green outfit, the musician played with a live band, with songs Moyo Wangu , Siya and some new tracks thrilling fans. When he left the stage, people were calling for more, but his slot could not be extended because of time. As usual, Winky D introduced himself with the song Mudhara Vauya .His job was made easier by merrymakers who sang along to most of the tracks. The whole auditorium went wild when Mtukudzi joined the dancehall chanter for their duet Panorwadza Moyo . So emotional were the merrymakers who raised their hands and sang along to the song that reminds of dead relatives and beloved ones.The touching message of the song, however, seemed to spoil the mood of the crowd that could not sing along to Winky D s last two songs that include his hit Disappear . Next on stage was Mtukudzi, who managed to take fans back in time with his old hits.The musician used his expertise to show people why he is highly rated. He did old and new songs in an exciting way that kept people on the dance floor. Templeman and Gary B had a good day in office on the night as they warmed the stage for Morgan Heritage.Merrymakers had to wait for some minutes for the group to set up their instruments. Jemere Morgan took to the stage first, prompting merrymakers to lift their phones to take videos and pictures of the musician. Jemere, who is son to Morgan Heritage family member Gramps and is part of the touring team, prepared the way for the big group.When the group came on stage, with Peetah on lead vocals on most of the songs and other members on the instruments, the group delivered a show that left an indelible mark on local showbiz. The group showered praises on Zimbabwe, saying it was one of the beautiful countries in Africa. Everyone put your tabs on, we want this to go viral on social media that Morgan Heritage was in Zimbabwe, we really appreciate that you came in your numbers. Tell them Morgan Heritage have arrived, said Peetah in the middle of the performance.They also urged Zimbabweans to safeguard their legacy saying they feel very proud to be associated with Zimbabwe. Africa is for Africans, Europe is for Europeans, America is for the Americans and China is for the Chinamen (sic). So is Zimbabwe. So let s be proud of who we are as Zimbabwean people and love one another, he said.His words prompted an identified fan to give him the Zimbabwean flag on stage. It was also a night of prayer when the group introduced the song Protect us Jah that was specifically dedicated to their sister Una, who failed to travel due to illness.Morgan Heritage went on to endorse some local artistes like superstar Oliver Mtukudzi, Winky D and Jah Prayzah. Jah Prayzah made a cameo appearance saluting fans much to the delight of many. It was indeed a night to remember and Morgan Heritage did the best to leave lasting impressions.