Sports Reporter PRESSURE is mounting on Dynamos board chairman Bernard Marriot-Lusengo to address the crisis bedevilling the club following the latest fallout with the club s executive president, Kenny Mubaiwa, who gave his notice of resignation last week. Mubaiwa is set to tender his resignation this week to leave the club with Webster Marechera as the only member of the executive. DeMbare were supposed to hold a crisis meeting last week but they could not.Former administrator Uzziel Mankola, who claims to be among the founders of the club, has sprung up from the shadows with a scathing attack on board chairman Marriot whom he accused of being the source of the seemingly never ever-ending problems at the Harare giants.Mankola, who spent years in England after relocating in 1999, charged that Marriot was illegitimately running the show at the Glamour Boys.Marriot has been targeted by former teammates and founder members like Ernest Kamba, who is mobilising supporters and former players to challenge the current leadership.Mankola said Marriot tricked all the stakeholders and converted Dynamos into his own personal property against the provisions of their own constitution.He sensationally claimed that Marriot is not a founder member of the club but had manipulated records to suit his desire to hold power as the Dynamos constitution provides that board members should be drawn from among the founders. The constitution says the board of directors should comprise founder members but most of them have since died. There are only a few left. I also discovered that some founder members and early players have been suspended. And what Marriot is doing is to eliminate all the founders and former players. He has surrounded himself with people who toe his line and if you don t walk his line he creates a situation and you are out, said Mankola. There is a history of corruption and mismanagement at the club and all that should be arrested. So I am saying, ZIFA or the Sports Commission should come in and investigate all the appointments made since Dynamos registered as a private company in 1999. The idea to register as a company was good but the constitution was not followed. There had to be a resolution passed at a meeting duly notified but all that was not done. All stakeholders were not consulted. And if I may to ask those who call themselves shareholders, how much did they put into the team and how much has been their dividend since then? Authorities should find ways to sort out the rot because Dynamos problems somehow affect all teams. This board must be suspended, an interim one put in place, an AGM called as a matter of urgency and map the way forward with all Dynamos stakeholders. Mankola said it was a pity Dynamos was sitting on a rich mine of material and personnel resources yet they are struggling to stamp their authority on the domestic scene. Dynamos has a big following and is a big brand which can make its own money. We also have a large pool of coaches at Dynamos. We have the likes of Sunday Chidzambwa, his brother Misheck, Moses Chunga, Elvis Chiweshe, David Mandigora and all and I am sure it s possible to rope in a big technical team if finances were handled properly, said Mankola.