There has been a lot of improvement in the way people are accessing the internet. People are using other devices apart from traditional computers and laptops, with mobile phones, tablets and smart phones the most common of these.People, these days, want access to their emails and the internet as easily as they can check their voicemail, and Wi-Fi is extensively used for this.Wireless (or Wi-Fi) hotspots are wireless access points providing network and/or Internet access to mobile devices like your laptop, tablet or smartphone, typically in public locations. To put it more simply, these are places where you can take your laptop or other mobile device and wirelessly connect to the Internet.There has been a large increase in Wi-Fi hotspots over the last few years. Connecting to a hotspot and using its Internet connection basically works the same as other home or business wireless connection set up steps: Your wireless-equipped laptop or other device, such as an iPod or smartphone, will typically notify you when it is in range of available wireless networks.ZOL Zimbabwe have invested massively in replacing old Wi-Fi infrastructure with new state of the art equipment.ZOL partnered with one of the world s leading Wi-Fi equipment vendors to design a custom made solution that is tailor-made to suit the Zimbabwean environment.This solution offers simplicity in deployment, management and use. The new platform makes use of cutting edge Wi-Fi technology like MIMO, beam-forming and interference mitigation technology.ZOL s new infrastructure has real-time monitoring and reporting built in so that issues can be fixed faster and automatically.The access points themselves are smarter, in the event of certain problems they can self-heal and send out alerts to the administrators.This brings about unparalleled reliability. All this technology is focused on one thing . . . a world class service to the man on the street!The new Wi-Fi infrastructure brings far higher performance and reliability. The ZOL platform has been tried and tested having being used to provide service to densely populated events such as the Hifa 2015, ZITF, IAD summit and UNWTO. Over the week of Hifa, ZOL had 3000+ unique devices accessing free ZOL Wi-Fi during the event which collectively accessed over 1TB of data, Yes over 1 Terabyte!!Through the extensive preparatory work done, ZOL have designed service packages that are simply ahead of all the other services offered in the public Wi-Fi space in Zimbabwe. The packages deliver speed, reliability and about all massive bundles to suit any pocket.There is flexible validity for bundles at 30, 60 and 90 days.Top-ups will be super easy via a modern portal page. ZOL has brought the convenience of e-commerce to the user.All bundles and top-ups can be made via Ecocash, Pay-now and other popular mobile and online payment methods available in Zimbabwe.For existing ZOL customers with an active Fibroniks connection you can register devices for free unlimited access to ZOLspots nationwide.The number of devices you can register depends on the package you are on. Call it home away from Home. This provides the registered users with automatic access to ZOLspots with the registered devices. This is done on myzol.co.zw.The new ZOLspot solution brings higher security it s no secret that open Wi-Fi hotspots are not very secure in terms of privacy by nature.Until now there hasn t really been a solution to the problem at scale especially in the Zimbabwe Market, well now there is, ZOL runs a parallel Wi-Fi SSID alongside ZOLspot called ZOLsecure.ZOLsecure uses industry standard WPA2-Enterprise/802.1x encryption to secure the connection from the moment it leaves your laptop. Overall ZOLspot Wi-Fi will bring higher reliability, as well as better speeds.ZOL has over 100 ZOLspots across the whole of Zimbabwe with more being added by the week.The company continues to invest in technology and partnerships to foster growth within the IT industry.For more information on ZOLspot, ZOLSecure or Fibroniks on the Go, contact our Sales teams on 08677 111 111 or download the myZOL app for iOS or Android. ZOL ON! You deserve to live like this.