Justin BieberUNITED KINGDOM. Justin Bieber caused outrage last Sunday night when he stormed off the stage mid-concert. The 22-year-old pop star was speaking to his fans at the Manchester Arena when they started booing eager for him to get on with the show and carry on singing. Bieber then apparently dropped the mic and marched off stage after the crowd refused to listen.One fan at the concert tweeted: Justin got booed threw his mic and walked off stage #PurposeTourManchester A few minutes later Bieber returned and said: Manc can t handle the talking so I won t talk. And then at the end of the show, before closing on his most famous tune, he explained the fiasco. The reason why I was getting upset earlier was because I travelled across the whole world to come here and I dedicate my life to performing and bring smiles to people s faces. I feel that people were just not giving me the same respect back and it hurts a little bit so that s why. But we re gonna end it on this last song . . . Baby .Fans took to Twitter to express their shock at Bieber s actions, with some supporting the star and others saying the crowd did nothing wrong.One wrote: Fame has well and truly gone to your head mate Justin Bieber! Another said: I just want tonight s show to be over for him already my heart is breaking that they re soo disrespectful like that! PurposeTourManchester (sic)Bieber also caused controversy on Thursday when he asked fans to be quiet when he s singing ballads causing some of them to label him rude .The Sorry hitmaker twitched with simmering rage as he told fans: I thought I could have a moment to say something, but if you guys want I can cut the bull.He added: I m trying to engage, but if you guys don t want to, I ll play the music. The outburst came near the end of the show after Bieber tried to tell the audience why this is his Purpose tour saying everyone in here has a purpose in life. Following the performance, concert goers took to Twitter to call the star rude for telling them to quiet down.One fan wrote: @justinbieber #manchester was amazingggg . . . Shame he was rude to his fans, whilst another added: We love your music but you are RUDE!!!!!!!! @justinbieber. One Belieber cheekily quipped: @justinbieber in Manchester last night. 8 /10. Would score higher if not rude to audience and was far less clothed. But not every fan left disappointed, with one tweeting: Well @justinbieber and #TeamBieber absolutely KILLED IT in Manchester last night!! Best night of my life ever!! Loved every minute of it. And he kicked off the week by telling his fans they were obnoxious after they screamed throughout the entirety of his Birmingham gig. DailyMail.