LONDON. Jose Mourinho reportedly accused Antonio Conte of humiliating him after a disastrous return to Stamford Bridge ended in a tunnel bust-up between members of the back-room staffs following Chelsea s 4-0 win over Manchester United in the English Premiership soccer match on Sunday. The former Blues boss shook hands with his opposite number and then whispered something in his ear at the full-time whistle.Shortly afterwards, a member of the Manchester United back-room staff refused to shake Conte s hand, leading to a further altercation between the individual and one of his Chelsea counterparts as the group headed to the dressing rooms.Mourinho refused to reveal what he said to Conte after the game.In his press conference after the defeat, the Man United boss said: I am not the kind of guy to share with you things between me and Antonio. It stays between me and him, unless he wants to share it. Conte wasn t in the mood for spilling the beans either.He said: I think the private conversation must remain private. If someone discovers something, okay. I have great respect for Jose, he is a great manager and he won a lot here. Sky Italia say Mourinho was furious with Conte for trying to embarrass him.Conte was busy on the touchline whipping Chelsea s fans into a frenzy despite his side cruising to victory.And Sky Italia say Mourinho told the Blues boss: You don t wind up the crowd at 4-0. You do it at 1-0. It s humiliating. But Conte hit back at Mourinho, saying: I ve been a player too and I know how to behave. I always show great respect for everyone, including Manchester United. There was no incident, it was just a normal thing to do. I wasn t mocking anyone, I wouldn t do that. Today it was right to call our fans in a moment (when) I was listening (to) only the supporters of Manchester United, at 4-0. Conte looked clearly upset following Mourinho s outburst. I was a player, he said. I know what the feeling is like (to score). I only told the fans to applaud the team because the team deserved it. There is always been respect for all, and naturally for Manchester United. I did something absolutely normal. I didn t do anything to humiliate Mourinho. I think that, today, it was right to call our fans in a moment I was listening only to the supporters of Manchester United at 4-0. So I called the fans to give the players a great clap after this kind of performance. The players, after a 4-0 win, deserved a great clap. It s very normal. Asked if he regretted doing it, Conte added: We live with emotions. If you want to cut the emotions, we can stay at home and I will change jobs. It s important for our fans to push in every moment of the game. When the players deserve it after this performance, it s right to receive a great clap from the fans. United were second-best throughout as Chelsea cruised to a 4-0 win.Tensions between the two teams were clear to see in the tunnel when members of staff were embroiled in further verbal disputes.Sources claim that a member of Mourinho s backroom team refused to shake Conte s hand after the final whistle, causing a row.Despite his disappointment which was hardly helped by the news that Eric Bailly could have picked up a serious knee ligament injury Mourinho insisted the occasion of his return to a club which he had led so successfully had not got to him or his players.Mourinho received a mixed response from the Stamford Bridge crowd.Chants of You re not special any more echoed round the stadium in the first half but later home supporters sang Mourinho s name. I didn t feel the reaction, he said. I was in the game. For sure it was not negative it had no reason to be. Everything was like it should be. Calm. Conte, on the other hand, was pleased to put down a marker to their Premier League rivals that after last season s poor showing, Chelsea were back in contention right at the very least having risen to within a point of the top.But after his players posted pictures on social media of them celebrating in the dressing room, he reinforced the importance of not getting carried away. When you work very hard and win, it s important to celebrate, he said. But I have already told my players that United is the past. Now we must be focused on Wednesday because there is another important, tough game against West Ham. The Daily Star.