Freedom Mupanedemo in Gokwe In an incident that has baffled Gokwe villagers, a 36-year-old woman gave birth to a frog-like creature after she suddenly got into labour while at home. The expectant mother, who was eight months pregnant, passed out soon after giving birth to the frog and was taken to Gokwe District Hospital by her husband, where the creature later died. Nomore (39) and Precious Nyathi (36) kept the dead creature in their bedroom for some days before villagers tipped the local traditional leadership, which then ordered the frog , which had shrank in size, to be burnt before a stunned crowd.The incident, which is now the talk of Gokwe, occurred last Thursday at Sidojiwe Village under Chief Njelele. An official at Gokwe District Hospital, who confirmed the incident, said Mrs Nyathi, who was registered at the hospital as an expectant mother, was supposed to deliver by the end of this month. She was our patient who would come for routine reviews together with other pregnant women. We were shocked when she visited the hospital in the company of her husband and some neighbours saying she had delivered a frog, said the official.The official who cannot be named for professional reasons said they only gave Mrs Nyathi some pain killers before they discharged her. She only had some blood stains which suggested that she could have been in labour but everything on her was normal, said the official.Meanwhile, The Herald visited Chief Njelele s homestead yesterday, where the distraught couple brought the frog before a shocked crowd that had gathered to witness the bizarre incident.In an interview, Mr Nyathi said they have been holding on to their child because they were still confused and did not know what to do with it. We were all confused following this hellish experience and until today, I don t have peace of mind. We were expecting a child and this is what the heavens gave us. I had to keep it in my home waiting for some advice from the village elders as well as our local chief, said the sobbing Mr Nyathi.He said on the fateful day, he was away when he received a phone call from a neighbour that his wife had suddenly gone into labour, but had given birth to some strange thing . I rushed home and was shocked to see a frog with the elderly women I found gathered at my homestead saying it was the one that my wife had just delivered. She was still writhing in pain and we had to take her to the hospital in a scotch cart. At the hospital, they confirmed that she went into labour but they were equally shocked, said Mr Nyathi.Mrs Nyathi said she was still in a state of shock and the experience will haunt her for life. It s a hellish experience which will haunt me all my life. I don t know how our traditional leader will help us on this one because the hospital authorities could not give us any explanation to this, said Mrs Nyathi, who has two children outside the marriage.Chief Njelele said although there were a number of weird things that have occurred in Gokwe, the frog was a first. It s stranger than fiction! I had to call hospital authorities and they indeed confirmed that she was one of their pregnant patients who regularly visited the hospital for reviews but they could not explain what happened to her pregnancy, he said