Paul Mundandi in ZVISHAVANETHEY may have encountered setbacks along the way, but title-chasing FC Platinum remain confident they will turn the tables in the race when they host Ngezi Platinum at Mandava this afternoon. Assistant coach Daniel Veremu was putting on a brave face yesterday as he urged the players and supporters to keep the faith. We might have lost the game to Harare City but that was not the end of the world for us. It s true we fell but we managed to pick ourselves up, said Veremu. We have 12 poiacnts to play for and we are still in the marathon. All we need to do is win all our remaining games and see what happens at the end of the season. God is the only one who knows our destiny. He knows the team that will lift the championship and we are not panicking, neither are we under pressure. FC Platinum coach Mapeza had a meeting with his players on Tuesday, where he urged them to step up the fight. Our fans have to keep on believing because the team, the technical (staff)and the executive are believing. We are going to fight until the end and we are not worried about what the other two teams in the race are doing, but we are just looking at our results, said Veremu.The 31-year-old coach is not even worried that they will miss defender Gift Bello and midfielder Gerald Takwara through suspensionTakwara was shown a straight red card against Harare City, whilst Bello has accumulated three yellows.Hilary Bakacheza, Elvis Moyo and Nqobizitha Masuku might feature in the team if they managed to pass a late fitness test yesterday afternoon. We once played without Bello after he got a red card against ZPC and won. I feel we have enough cover. The two are important members of the team, but whoever is called to fill their position must deliver. The match tomorrow (today) is just like any other match. We respect Ngezi, they are a good side but we have an experienced coach who came through such a situation and won the league. Losing to Harare City was not the end of us. We are still confident and we are still in the race. Our focus is on the remaining four games and we will not change anything but we will stick to our game plan, said Veremu.