 . . . touching ceremony at Mother TouchTawanda Matanhire Cool Lifestyle ReporterIt was yet another celebration for the speech and prize giving day as well as prefects inauguration at Mother Touch High School in Tynwald last weekend. Students and parents thronged the high school auditorium to witness some of the students who excelled in their studies and other disciplines being awarded prizes for the good work they have been doing throughout the year.The event started off with singing from the Christian in Action Choir as parents and invited guests arrived.The students choir then took over and serenaded the whole auditorium with mellow harmonies awaiting for the commencement of the day`s business.After welcome remarks, Mother Touch High School drama club entertained guests with a well scripted play sending revellers to a lighter laughter moment.School headboy, Eugene Nyanhongo then delivered a breath-taking speech about his delight after assuming the position to lead other students throughout the year as the leader of all prefects among other things.He said this position required organisation, discipline and resilience and none of these were his natural attributes. When I was appointed the head boy of this illustrious institution, it was a sweet and bitter feeling of joy and fear, I was not convinced I was fit for the role, Nyanhongo said. It requires organisation, discipline and resilience, none of these were my natural attributes but I realised that everyone has room to grow. After the speech the founder and CEO for Mother Touch group of schools Mrs Salome Mutsinze and Pastor Mandembo led the prefects inauguration which saw several students being nominated as they awaited for their official positions to operate for the coming year.Several candidates who included Form Threes and Lower Sixth were appointed as prefects. The new head boy for the coming year is Victor Manyere and the head girl Rosemary Zvabaya. Vice head boy and head girl are Arshel Chirurumwa and Shantel Mutsindikwa respectively.Senior prefects are Masline Madambo and Tadiwa Chikuni while other prefects include Arter Chimwanza, Kudakwashe Madanhi and Cliffton Munengami. Finally, it was time which everyone had been waiting for, the prize presentation for the best students in their different categories.Parents and students cheered as students from the form ones to upper sixes, were awarded for excellent academic results, sports and deportment.Among the students who excelled and took the first position in their academics was Praise Mutandwa, Ian Dandajena, Michelle Charamanda, Kelvin Pairamanzi, Tadiwanashe Chikuni and Tinashe Masimo from Form One to Upper Sixth respectively.From the sporting disciplines was team of the year which was awarded to the rugby team, Tinashe Bhasopo was the overall sports person of the year. Parents and teachers could not be left out as they also received awards for contributing to the success of school programmes.