Shepherd Chimururi: Cool Lifestyle CorrespondentZimbabwe national cricket team s dismal performance at international level was forgotten for a moment as fans were mesmerised by raw talent at Alexandra Park School Super 8 trophy. The eight-team cricket tournament which was strictly for children included the hosts Alexandra Park, Highlands, Hellenic and Hartmann House in pool one and Heritage, Chipembere, Gateway and the eventual winners Westridge in pool two. The tourney saw Westridge primary school scooping this year s trophy after beating Gateway Primary school by four runs in a nail biting finalThe tournament has been running since 1998 at Alexandra Park School organised by Elliot Mushaninga.Basic aims of the tournament are to encourage wider interest in playing cricket amongst local U13 cricketers in both government and private primary schools, thus developing the market of cricket from grassroots level and building confidence in junior cricketers at their level best and get maximum enjoyment of the game.The tournament also encourages aggressive, risky, entertaining batting and all other aspects of the game.Teams were divided in two pools of four teams each.In pool one Hellenic topped the group followed by Hartmann house.Alexandra Park who were tied with Hartmann House could not proceed to the cross pool matches because of the bonus point rule despite spirited efforts by their captain Mufaro Garande. In pool two Westridge ruled the roost with Gateway taking second spot.In the semi finals Westridge beat Hartman House 67 /4 (8 overs) and Gateway got the better of Hellenic by 24 runs.In the third and fourth play offs Hellenic won against Hartmann House. Hellenic won by 43 runs. They batted first and made 97 all out and Hartmann House chased the total but only managed 54 for six. Hellenic were powered by grade seven pupil Chase Smyth,(12) a product of Howzat cricket academy.In the final match, Westridge coached by Simbarashe Gupo battled against Gateway, Westridge batted first and were 87 all out in 7,3 overs and Gateway, the 2014 winners who are coached by Tariro Chawafambira batted second and were 83 all out in eight allotted overs.Superb bowling and batting by the player of the tournament Tadiwa Mwale (12) inspired Westridge who was part of U13 Inter provincial in 2015 and who played in Zim U13 this year made the difference. He scored a total of 97 runs in five innings and he had three not outs batting.Overally he took eight wickets in 10 overs that he bowled in five matches. I am happy for the boys we had to put 100 percent effort.It was not easy to win the tournament. The team spirit was strong and we believed in ourselves.I hope the boys will win it next near, said the grade seven pupil who was awarded a cricket and hockey scholarship at Falcon college where he will do his secondary education.Mwale was voted the tournament s best all rounder, Gregory Pechey from Gateway winning the best batsman, Moses Gwese from Hartmann House being chosen best fielder, Tadiwa Mapiro from Westridge best wicket keeper and Matthew Schonke from Hellenic best bowler. The Alexandra Park team was nominated the most spirited team. The tournament s outstanding players received their prizes from guest of honour national team player Hamilton Masakadza.Pick of the bowlers, Gregory Pechey (12) who scored two for six in 1.4 overs said, We played well and we enjoyed the game. We are happy to have come this far. Who said he started to play cricket while still in Grade 2. Keep practising and pushing until you get there, he saidPrizes were sponsored by Sports Guru who donated some caps and sports equipment towards individual prizes. Old Mutual donated some stationary bags towards individual prizes as well and Deet designs donated caps for the playing teams.