Dynamos assistant coach Murape Murape (centre) and his players Denver Mukamba and Sydney Linyama (right) join Harare Central Prison inmates in song and dance during their tour of the complex yesterdayEddie Chikamhi Sports ReporterDYNAMOS number one Tatenda Mukuruva could be forced to spend this week on the sidelines after the Warriors goalkeeper failed to turn up for training with a knee injury. The former champions host Hwange at Rufaro this Sunday. Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa yesterday said Mukuruva is recovering from a knee injury he picked in their last game against FC Platinum at Mandava two weeks ago. He was joined on the sidelines by fellow Warriors defender Elisha Muroiwa in the casualty ward. Muroiwa had returned to action last month after enduring a prolonged period of inactivity because of a shin injury he sustained during the COSAFA Cup tournament in Namibia.The big defender played the last two games against Tsholotsho and FC Platinum and it appeared he had fully healed only to encounter another setback last week during training. Mutasa said the two players could not feature in the practice match against Division One side Yadah at the weekend and were being monitored by the medical personnel.VIDEO Tatenda has a knee problem that he suffered in the game against FC Platinum. He failed to train yesterday (Tuesday) and today and we will see tomorrow if he will be able to take part in the drills, said Mutasa. And Elisha played that game at home (against Tsholotsho) and then played another game against FC Platinum and we thought all is in order, but he complained of pain after last Wednesday s training.Dynamos assistant coach Murape Murape pause with an inmate. So he did not feature in the practice match that we played with Yadah. As we speak he is yet to have a run (at training). Dynamos were inactive last weekend when the quarter-finals of the Chibuku Super Cup tournament were played. The Glamour Boys failed to go past the first hurdle and they are now looking to finish the season strongly after they fell out of the race for this year s championship. If you look at the games that we have played so far, I think the last league match we lost at home was against Highlanders, and that was way back. So we are just trying to be consistent at home. We know Hwange are not easy opponents and that we have been blowing hot and cold, but all the same we want to appease our loyal fans who have remained behind this team irrespective of the fact that we are no longer fighting for the league title. So we would want to give it our best in the remaining matches, said Mutasa. We had a practice game against Yadah in our last training match and we saw youngsters scoring. We scored four and that s a positive because we haven t been scoring goals. On a negative note we also conceded. But, overall that good performance in front of goal should motivate us to score when we face Hwange, said Mutasa. Their inactivity last week could also have allowed them more time to work on their weaknesses. The team is keen to turn on a brighter side of things after surviving serious boardroom clashes which nearly plunged the side in a severe management crisis.Club president Kenny Mubaiwa, who had threatened to resign in the wake of a fallout with board chairman Bernard Marriot-Lusengo, indicated he was staying after ironing out their differences. Meanwhile, Dynamos yesterday showed their social responsibility side when they toured the Harare Central Prison after their morning training session. The players were led by the club s executive treasurer Webster Marechera and the entire technical team comprising head coach Mutasa, his assistant Murape Murape, goalkeeper s coach Gift Muzadzi and team manager Richard Chihoro. DeMbare also pledged to face inmates from the prison in a football match at Gwanzura this Saturday to mark the Zimbabwe Prisons Day.The prisoners were overwhelmed by the visit with assistant coach Murape, Roderick Mutuma, Denver Mukamba, Sydney Linyama and Wisdom Mutasa being the favourites of the inmates. The players shared experiences, jokes and sentiments with the prisoners. They also joined in their choir as inmates took time to demonstrate amazing vocal talents.The prisoners have their football pitch behind the high walls where different teams often clash in entertaining duels. There is also a team called Dynamos inside Harare Central Prison, which took the opportunity to appeal to their peers for donations of kits and equipment. DeMbare coach Mutasa said the tour was worthwhile. Dynamos is a big club and our existence should be felt in the community. In the same vein, we should also seek to visit the sick and the needy. I am sure the prison officials also realised that this is a big club and decided to associate with us on their Prisons Day. That s the value they place on sport. Dynamos is a team with many supporters, even among the prison officials themselves. There is always that relationship. And on a personal note, the prisons officials allowed me to go and work at Dynamos when I was their employee. That was commendable on their part. And today, besides mingling and socialising with the inmates, I think our players also learnt something from what they saw here. This is not a good place to be and I m sure this could act as a deterrent to anyone who may have contemplated committing a crime, said Mutasa.FixturesSaturday: Ngezi Platinum Stars v Tsholotsho (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Triangle (Nyamhunga), How Mine v Mutare City (Luveve), Harare City v FC Platinum (Rufaro), Chapungu v Highlanders (Ascot)Sunday: Bulawayo City v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Hwange (Rufaro), Border Strikers v Caps United (Dulivhadzimu)