President Mugabe confers with Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, while Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko and zanu-pf Secretary for the Commissariat Saviour Kasukuwere looks on at the Women&#8217;s League National Assembly in Harare yesterday. (Picture by Justin Mutenda)Elita Chikwati Senior Reporter&#8212; Zanu-PF is solidly united and will not allow rumours to divide and destroy its top leadership, including the two Vice Presidents with liberation war credentials, President Mugabe has said. He said factions did not exist in the revolutionary party, which only had distinctive organs. Addressing the zanu-pf Women s League National Assembly at the party s headquarters in Harare yesterday, President Mugabe emphasised the need for unity.Related stories President calls for unity in Masvingo President descends on Mash Central Let s keep together, says President Let s treasure unity: President Factionalism treasonous: President Those fighting national unity are misguided President sets stage for unity We must remain disciplined No to divisions, says President Be born again or face expulsion: President Zanu-PF you are a family! The meeting was also attended by Vice Presidents Emmerson Mnangagwa and Phelekhezela Mphoko, Women s League National Assembly members, National Executive Council members, Politburo and Central Committee members among others. The President warned those spreading rumours of divisions between him and his deputies that they would yield nothing. We are united at the top. Whatever people might say, we just continue and continue to do our work. Lots of things have been said about my VPs and we have said let s do our work and ignore them. Serve the people and that s it. Rumours hatidi, hatidi marumours isusu. Talk to the people using the voice of unity, language of unity and not language of division. Don t divide. Rumours hatidi, running from one area to another. No that s not zanu-pf. You may see the information coming to you, fine. But you should not be the rumourmonger yourself nekuti dzimwe nhema dzinotitemesa musoro, dzimwe dzehuroyi dzimwe dzei aah. Unosvika kupi nadzo uchiti pautatu hwedu apa, tinotovareva? Chero mumwe auya oti musapiwa maranjisi navanaMnangagwa anenge azodzwa vanenge vabva kun anga dzavo. Iro ranjisi rine makoko! Kana! takabvira kupi nerwendo urwu tiri pamwechete? This is 2016, takararama jeri tiri tose tikabuda, kunanaMozambique tiri tose, tikaona independence tiri tose. Muroyi azouya nhasi? Ndingade kuziva anonzi ndiye muroyi wacho, ndonzi ndiye n anga yacho ndogoionawo ini. So let s be united. But unity must recognise others who do not belong to us. Leave them in peace. Listen audio here He commended youth secretary, Cde Kudzai Chipanga, for organising the One Million Man march, which he said went on well. President Mugabe said the youths were important in the party as they were the future and heirs of the inheritance. Vana Chipanga tinoda kukutendai. I am glad you are here. Mukomana uyu akaorganiser One Million Man March yakavhundutsa. That was a demonstration of what we can do in the future and the party. So we say to you well done congratulations. Ndimi the youths vanotumwa nanamai vanodefender vanamai nababa. Ndimi vagari venhaka and you should be worried about the future of the party much more than the Women s League.President Mugabe said factions did not have any place in the ruling party as Zanu-PF operated on organs and not factions. To hell with factions I would say. The party knows nothing that is a faction. Muconstitution yedu hamuna zvefaction, mune maorgans. Mune maorgans eparty but you will find people wanting to divide the party. There had been some instances by outsiders thinking the party is divided, demonstrating and appealing nationally for persons within the party to join and I am glad they have been shown that our party is not that stupid, he said. He said Pastor Evans Mawarire of the #This Flag, failed to divide the people when he called for demonstrations against the Statutory Instrument 64. Vana Mawarire unouya achijamba, kujambira neukoko achiti taita nyaya yekuBeitbridge futi yekuti vanhu vange vachidemonstrator ikoko nekurambidzwa kwavakaitwa kuunza muno munyika zvatinogona kuwana muno nekuti zvinokanganisawo vashandi vedu. Mawarire wakabva nepi. Afunga kuti vanhu vachauya mirwi vachibva mumaparty mese akanyara. Ndobva akatiza hoyo takazonwa kuti ave kuAmerica, he said.He dismissed that there were demonstrations against him at the United Nations and said he did not see the demonstrators, but only members of the December 12 movement. Vakaenda kuUnited Nations ini handina kumbovaona ini. Takangonzwa chete kuti kwanga kuine 19 vakauya kuzodemonstrator but group yedu ye December 12 did well, he said. So let s remain this tight and not allow these outsiders to penetrate us. Maparty aya, anana Mai (Joice) Mujuru ana Dumiso (Dambengwa), Welshaman Ncube kana vana (Tendai) Biti vanoramba vachingodimbuka dimbuka kudaro vachiita zvipiece zvipiece sechinhu chiya chi amoeba. The outsiders will not stop their attempts &#8211; their efforts to undermine our unity. They will look at the various ways of dividing us. Madilpomats anotipindira nenyaya yekuda mari yekuorganiser kana mari chaiyo yekushandisa vachiita in-bite.When diplomats in-bite our people vachivafurira, quite often, we get the stories that so and so and so was invited nemaAmeriacans nemaBritish. You have stood firm. Let s continue to stand firm as we have done before, he said.President Mugabe applauded the support the party got from the Women s League and said he preferred to attend their meeting than going to Botswana where he was invited for an independence anniversary.