Diana MaNgwenya SamkangeTinashe Mutero Own Correspondent&#8212; Diana MaNgwenya Samkange will launch her new album Kwayedza on Friday at The Volt. She quietly released the new album on August 12 in the UK. It was brave of her to settle for the same date on which her compatriot Jah Prayzah released his much-hyped album Mdhara Vachauya . One wonders whether or not Diana wanted her album to compete. Most female musicians have for long complained that they do not have the same opportunities as their male counterparts, especially with regards to live show promotions and media visibility.My argument has always been that female musicians are not doing enough. But here, Diana outdid herself and gave us a decent album. This is why even without much promotional effort the offering s best songs are already staple on radio. The title-track and first song on the eight-track album is Kwayedza , a spiritual jam which sets the tone for this mature offering.Showcasing the performer s sheer musicality, the number has a deep message which addresses the realities of many people in Zimbabwe. It is influenced by mhande (a Zimbabwean traditional dance) and speaks of a new beginning, where one is aware of their enemies but takes the most difficult yet peaceful decision of maintaining their silence and peace.This is probably why Diana sings with hope on the song Rugare (prosperity). In the song she laments, calling to the ancestors to intervene and forgive Zimbabweans for their wrongs. The genius of the third track Matero is in its simplicity. The song is not congested with unnecessary instrumentation. Like every other song on this album, Matero is laden with meaning.Not to suggest that Diana copied here, but one cannot help but notice at least the similarities of her style with that of talented Zimbabwean artist Victor Kunonga. One of my favourite songs on this album is Mationesa , which was released early as a promotional single. On this one Diana and talented producer Munya Vially laced a fast paced composition which has the potential to appeal both to sungura fans and her usual audience.What I did not like, however, is the song s video. Given the upbeat tempo and energy the song has, MaNgwenya should have delivered a serious dance performance in the video or at least hired a professional dance crew like IYASA. An energetic video gives viewers a clue of what to expect at an artist s live shows.This is particularly important considering that musicians generate more revenue from live performances. In Zimbabwe musicians hardly make anything from music sales because of the ravaging effects of piracy.What I find particularly striking is Diana s effortless singing. She has a beautiful voice which brings something different to mbira music. Her calm, velvet voice is soothing and I should mention in the same breadth that she has a very beautiful showbiz face.I have often argued that modern day mbira musicians might fail to break into regional markets because they are not allowing their (our) music to speak to other musical languages. For me, the easiest way to do that is to realise that good vocals are a universal music language.Diana s sultry voice certainly makes it easy for anyone to fall in love with mbira music. By branding herself as MaNgwenya I wonder if Diana is making a marketing decision to be seen as a spirit medium or if she is genuinely linked to the cosmos?For now what is certain is that her star is on the rise and Kwayedza is one album I would not hesitate to buy. Diana Mationesa Samkange was born in Harare. She ventured into music in 2004 as an Urban Grooves artist and was part of a group called 2BG.The group split as members Shane Dingz and Blush relocated to the UK and South Africa. She changed genres and adopted jazz with no difficulties. Shortly afterwards, she joined Chigutiro Recording Stable and embarked on a solo career that saw her release Chitsidzo .In 2008, she released her debut album My First Diary . This was followed by Kumagumo eRudo (2010). Her second album transcended across age and social barriers. Her lyrics were pregnant with social commentary and romantic propositions. Kumazivandadzoka (2013) is her third album. She is set to release her eight track fourth album Mationesa in July 2015.Some of the tracks that will feature on the album are Mationesa , Matero and Kwayedza . She has included her two singles Mwene Wemoyo and Tikure Murudo a collaboration she did with Prince Kudakwashe. The album is set to distinguish Diana Samkange and Mangwenya.It is meant to introduce the Mangwenya. The launch of the album will be accompanied by the establishment of Mangwenya Mentorship programme, which is designed to mentor upcoming artists. The artists will be opening acts during her live performances. Apart from music, she is also a farmer. Musicinafrica.net